<!--
  <!DOCTYPE chapter PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN" "dtd/kdex.dtd" >

 -->

<chapter id="basics">
  <title>
    &kexi; Basics
  </title>

  <sect1 id="doc-vs-project">
    <title>
      Kexi Databases
    </title>
    <para>
      Many applications such as OpenOffice.org or Microsoft Excel create
      files which are called <firstterm>documents</firstterm>. &kexi;
      creates files too, but we refer to them as <firstterm>&kexi;
      database files</firstterm>, or simple <firstterm>database
      files</firstterm> here.  &kexi; database files usually have the
      extension <filename>.kexi</filename>.
    </para>
  
<!-- TODO: Picture of Kexi database icon? -->

    <para>
      In addition to storing your databases in database files, &kexi;
      can also use databases on <firstterm>database
      servers</firstterm>, which is why we refer to them as
      <emphasis>database files</emphasis>, and not simply as
      <emphasis>databases</emphasis>.
    </para>

    <para>
      The term <firstterm>&kexi; project</firstterm>, or simply
      <firstterm>project</firstterm> is also used to refer to a &kexi;
      database, regardless of whether it is stored in a file or on a
      database server.
    </para>
  </sect1>

  <sect1 id="new-database">
    <title>
      Creating a New Database File
    </title>

    <procedure>
      <step>
	<para>
	  Run &kexi;, or if it is already running, use
	  <menuchoice>
	    <shortcut>
	      <keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>N</keycap></keycombo>
	    </shortcut>
	    <guimenu>File</guimenu><guimenuitem>New</guimenuitem>
	  </menuchoice>
	</para>
      </step>
      <step>
	<para>
	  Click the <guibutton>OK</guibutton> to confirm the
	  creation of the project.
	</para>
      </step>
      <step>
	<para>
	  Enter a name for your project, and click <guibutton>Next</guibutton>.
	</para>
      </step>
      <step>
	  <para>
	    Use the file browser to choose a folder where you would
	    like to save your database file.  You may change the file
	    name in the <guilabel>Location:</guilabel> box if you dislike
	    the one that is suggested.
	  </para>
      </step>
      <step>
	<para>
	  Click <guibutton>Create</guibutton>.
	</para>
      </step>
    </procedure>
  </sect1>

  <sect1 id="main-window">
    <title>
      The &kexi; Main Window
    </title>
    <para>
      The <guilabel>Project Navigator</guilabel> and
      <guilabel>Properties Editor</guilabel> are shown in panes on
      each side of the child window.  These can be resized or hidden
      as required.  A pane can be hidden by clicking the small cross
      at the top of the pane (just below the toolbar).
    </para>
    <para>
      New child windows can be created by clicking (or
      double-clicking, depending upon your global &kde; settings) on
      the names of database objects listed in the <guilabel>Project
      Navigator</guilabel>.
    </para>
  </sect1>

</chapter>