<chapter id="q-and-a">
<title>Questions and Answers</title>

<subtitle>Kpresenter 1.1.1</subtitle>

<para>Things you might like but &kpresenter; does not yet do (and what
to do about it)</para>

<para>Bezier curves. This allows vector drawing with curves that you
can adjust. Vector drawings still look good up close. This is being
developed for the next major release. Use &kontour; or a similar
package, import the artwork as a picture.</para>

<para>Movies or video. You can not run video within &kpresenter;. If
you really need to show a movie, make a link to it on your desktop,
move &kpresenter; out of the way, click the link to the movie file and
use <application>Xmovie</application> (or similar) to view it.</para>

<para><application>Powerpoint</application> Files. &kpresenter; does
attempt to import &Microsoft; <application>Powerpoint</application>
files but it does not always work. It depends on the
<application>Powerpoint</application> file version and what is in the
file. You can always import pictures for the background image and
re-type any text. It's not the ideal solution, re-doing the entire
presentation. However, just bear in mind that
<application>Powerpoint</application> does not even attempt to read
&kpresenter; files.</para>

<para>Sounds.  Some software allows you to assign noises to
events. &kpresenter; does not yet support audio. I suspect that this
is deliberate. You should be making the noise; gimmicky presentation
tricks do not help you to get your message over. They should be used
with caution and unless you are absolutely sure that they are going to
work as intended, should be avoided. A work-around is to but a link on
your desktop to the sound file.</para>

<para>Spelling. The next version will have the word processing engine
from &kword;, so it ought to have much better text handling
tools.</para>

<para>Taking notes or minutes. One piece of software allows you to
make notes during the meeting and puts them into a word
processor. Let's get something sorted out. If you are speaking,
someone else should be taking notes. If you really must do this sort
of thing, take a note pad and pencil. I think it looks ill-mannered if
someone is talking and you are typing. If you need to take notes, have
all the titles of your slides (or your major subject areas) in a
&kword; document or a text editor. If you need to make a note, just
insert whatever you need to remember under the appropriate
heading.</para>

<para>Timing. Some software includes a stopwatch function to allow you
to rehearse your presentation and see how long it takes. Buy a clock
with a second hand, note your start and end times. The clock will also
be useful for telling the time.</para>

<para>Zoom. At present, &kpresenter; does not let you zoom in to your
drawing. This is to be introduced in the next version.</para>

</chapter>
