<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE book PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.1-Based Variant V1.0//EN" "dtd/kdex.dtd" [
  <!ENTITY kappname "&kpresenter;">
  <!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
  <!ENTITY tutorial SYSTEM "tutorial.docbook">
  <!ENTITY screen SYSTEM "screen.docbook">
  <!ENTITY guides SYSTEM "guides.docbook">
  <!ENTITY menus SYSTEM "menus.docbook">
  <!ENTITY options SYSTEM "options.docbook">
  <!ENTITY faq SYSTEM "faq.docbook">
  <!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE" > <!-- change language only here -->
]>
        
<book lang="&language;">
<bookinfo>
<title>The &kpresenter; User's Manual</title>
<authorgroup>
<author>
<firstname>Krishna</firstname>
<surname>Tateneni</surname>
<affiliation>
<address><email>tateneni@pluto.njcc.com</email></address>
</affiliation>
</author>

<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
     
</authorgroup>

<date>2000-01-31</date>
<releaseinfo>1.10.00</releaseinfo>

<abstract>
<para>
&kpresenter; is the presentations program in the &koffice; suite of
productivity applications.
</para>
</abstract>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>KPresenter</keyword>
<keyword>KOffice</keyword>
<keyword>Graphics</keyword>
<keyword>Presentations</keyword>
</keywordset>

</bookinfo>

<chapter id="todo">
<title>To Be Done In This Manual</title>

<para>
There is a <emphasis>lot</emphasis> to be done in the &kpresenter;
manual. The below list is not necessarily complete, and does not follow
any particular order.
</para>

<itemizedlist>
<listitem>
<para>
Flesh out the introduction by describing presentations software
and the features of &kpresenter; in particular.
</para>
</listitem>

<listitem>
<para>
Add a <quote>What should I read?</quote> section to the introduction.
</para>
</listitem>

<listitem>
<para>
Expand the tutorial. Introduce more features to the new user.
</para>
</listitem>

<listitem>
<para>
Write the <link linkend="screen-description">&kpresenter; Screen</link> chapter.
</para>
</listitem>

<listitem>
<para>
Create an outline for the <link linkend="guides">Detailed Guides</link>
chapter(s).
</para>
</listitem>

<listitem>
<para>
Come up with a set of questions for the <link linkend="q-and-a">Q and
A</link> chapter. 
</para>
</listitem>

<listitem>
<para>
Write the <link linkend="options">&kpresenter; Options</link> chapter.
</para>
</listitem>

<listitem>
<para>
Write the tool bars/menu items chapter.
</para>
</listitem>
</itemizedlist>

</chapter>

<chapter id="introduction">
<title>Introduction</title>

<para>
&kpresenter; is the presentations program in the &koffice; productivity
suite. Using &kpresenter;, you can prepare a set of slides for use in an
on-screen slideshow or for printing. Your slides can include text and
graphics in a variety of formats, and of course, you can embed all sorts
of objects using KParts.
</para>

<para>
The &koffice; productivity suite consists of a number of applications
which are designed to work together. Overview documentation for
&koffice; is available, as well as manuals for each component of the
suite. The components of &koffice; are:
</para>

<itemizedlist>
<listitem>
<para>
&kword; - a frames based wordprocessor.
</para>
</listitem>

<listitem><para>
&kspread; - a spreadsheet application.
</para>
</listitem>

<listitem>
<para>
&kpresenter; - a presentations application.
</para>
</listitem>

<listitem>
<para>
&killustrator; - a vector drawing application.
</para>
</listitem>

<listitem>
<para>
&krayon; - a bitmap drawing application.
</para>
</listitem>
<!-- 
<listitem><para>
Katabase - a database application.
</para></listitem>
-->
<listitem>
<para>
&kformula; - an editor for mathematical formulae.
</para>
</listitem>

<listitem>
<para>
&kchart; - an application to draw charts and diagrams.
</para>
</listitem>

<!-- 
<listitem><para>
KImage - a simple image viewing application.
</para></listitem>
-->
</itemizedlist>

<para>
In addition to the above components, <application>KLyX</application>
will become part of &koffice; in the
future. <application>KLyX</application> is a wordprocessor for
scientific and mathematical documents based on TeX.
</para>

<para>
&koffice; is a free (or open-source) software project which is released
under the terms of the <acronym>GNU</acronym> General Public License.
</para>
</chapter>

&tutorial;

&screen;

&guides;

&menus;

&options;

&faq;

<chapter id="credits">
<title>Credits and License</title>

<para>
&kpresenter;
</para>

<para>
Program copyright 1998-2000 by Reginald Stadlbauer
<email>reggie@kde.org</email>
</para>

<para>
Current maintainer is Werner Trobin <email>trobin@kde.org</email>.
</para>


<itemizedlist>
<title>Contributors</title>

<listitem>
<para>
David Faure <email>dfaure@kde.org</email>
</para>
</listitem>

<listitem>
<para>
Toshitaka Fujioka <email>fujioka@kde.org</email>
</para>
</listitem>

<listitem>
<para>
Luk&aacute;&scaron; Tinkl <email>lukas@kde.org</email>
</para>
</listitem>
</itemizedlist>

<para>
Documentation copyright 1999-2000 by Krishna Tateneni 
<!-- add email address -->
</para>

<!-- TRANS:CREDIT_FOR_TRANSLATORS -->

&underFDL;
&underGPL;

</chapter>

<appendix id="installation">
<title>Installation</title>

<para></para>

</appendix>

&documentation.index; 

</book>

