<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE book PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN" "dtd/kdex.dtd" [
  <!ENTITY package "calligra">
  <!ENTITY calligra "Calligra">
  <!ENTITY tables "<application>Calligra Tables</application>">
  <!ENTITY words "<application>Calligra Words</application>">
  <!ENTITY stage "<application>Calligra Stage</application>">
  <!ENTITY flow "<application>Calligra Flow</application>">
  <!ENTITY plan "<application>Calligra Plan</application>">
  <!-- the following author entities have been added to user.entities in 4.10 branch and trunk of svn
       they can be removed from this file once they are present in the kdelibs minimum version required by &kappname; -->
  <!ENTITY traducteurFrederickAngelique      '<othercredit role="translator"><firstname>Frederick</firstname><surname>Angelique</surname><affiliation><address><email>ti_orion@hotmail.fr</email></address></affiliation><contrib>Traduction française&nbsp;</contrib></othercredit>'>
  <!ENTITY relecteurFrederickAngelique        '<othercredit role="reviewer"><firstname>Frederick</firstname><surname>Angelique</surname><affiliation><address><email>ti_orion@hotmail.fr</email></address></affiliation><contrib>Relecture de la documentation française&nbsp;</contrib></othercredit>'>
  <!ENTITY FrederickAngelique 'Frederick Angelique <email>ti_orion@hotmail.fr</email>'>

  <!ENTITY kappname "&stage;">
  <!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
  <!ENTITY tutorial SYSTEM "tutorial.docbook">
  <!ENTITY guides SYSTEM "guides.docbook">
  <!ENTITY great SYSTEM "great-presentations.docbook">
  <!ENTITY menus SYSTEM "menus.docbook">
  <!ENTITY options SYSTEM "options.docbook">
  <!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE" > <!-- change language only here -->
]>

<book lang="&language;">
<bookinfo>
<title>The &stage; Handbook</title>

<authorgroup>
<author>
&Neil.Lucock; &Neil.Lucock.mail;
</author>

<author>
&Krishna.Tateneni; &Krishna.Tateneni.mail;
</author>

<author>
&Anne-Marie.Mahfouf; &Anne-Marie.Mahfouf.mail;
</author>

<author>
<personname>
<firstname>Gary</firstname>
<surname>Cramblitt</surname>
</personname>
<email>garycramblitt@comcast.net</email>
</author>

<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<date>2012-06-15</date>
<releaseinfo>2.5</releaseinfo>

<copyright>
<year>1999</year><year>2000</year>
<holder>&Krishna.Tateneni;</holder>
</copyright>

<copyright>
<year>2001</year><year>2002</year>
<holder>&Neil.Lucock;</holder>
</copyright>

<copyright>
<year>2005</year>
<holder>&Anne-Marie.Mahfouf;</holder>
</copyright>

<copyright>
<year>2006</year>
<holder>Gary Cramblitt</holder>
</copyright>

<legalnotice>&FDLNotice;</legalnotice>

<abstract>
<para>
&stage; is the presentations program in the &calligra; suite of
productivity applications.
</para>
</abstract>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>Stage</keyword>
<keyword>Calligra</keyword>
<keyword>Graphics</keyword>
<keyword>Presentations</keyword>
</keywordset>

</bookinfo>

<chapter id="introduction">
<title>Introduction</title>

<important> <para>Please check <ulink
url="http://docs.kde.org/en/development/en/calligra/stage/index.html">http://docs.kde.org</ulink>
for updated versions of this document.</para></important>

<para>
&stage; is the presentations program in the &calligra; productivity
suite. Using &stage;, you can prepare a set of slides for use in an
on-screen slideshow or for printing. Your slides can include text and
graphics in a variety of formats, and of course, you can embed all sorts
of objects using KParts.
</para>

<para>
The &calligra; productivity suite consists of a number of applications
which are designed to work together. Overview documentation for
&calligra; is available, as well as manuals for each component of the
suite. Other components of &calligra; are:
</para>

<itemizedlist>
<listitem>
<para>
&words; - a frames based wordprocessor.
</para>
</listitem>

<listitem><para>
&tables; - a spreadsheet application.
</para>
</listitem>

</itemizedlist>

<para>
&calligra; is a free (or open-source) software project which is
released under the terms of the &GNU; General Public
License.
</para>

</chapter>

&tutorial;

&guides;

&great;

&menus;

&options;

<chapter id="credits">
<title>Credits and License</title>

<para>
&stage;
</para>

<para>
Program copyright 1998-2000 by Reginald Stadlbauer
<email>reggie@kde.org</email>
</para>

<para>
Current maintainer is Laurent Montel <email>montel@kde.org</email>.
</para>


<itemizedlist>
<title>Contributors</title>

<listitem>
<para>
Werner Trobin <email>trobin@kde.org</email>.
</para>
</listitem>

<listitem>
<para>
&David.Faure; &David.Faure.mail;
</para>
</listitem>

<listitem>
<para>
Toshitaka Fujioka <email>fujioka@kde.org</email>
</para>
</listitem>

<listitem>
<para>
Luk&aacute;&scaron; Tinkl <email>lukas@kde.org</email>
</para>
</listitem>

<listitem>
<para>
&Thorsten.Zachmann; &Thorsten.Zachmann.mail;
</para>
</listitem>

<listitem>
<para>
Ariya Hidayat <email>ariya@kde.org</email>
</para>
</listitem>

<listitem>
<para>
Percy Leonhardt <email>percy@eris23.de</email>
</para>
</listitem>
</itemizedlist>

<para>
Documentation based on the work copyright 1999-2000 by &Krishna.Tateneni;
.  Portions are copyright 2000-2002 &Neil.Lucock; &Neil.Lucock.mail;
and 2005 &Anne-Marie.Mahfouf; &Anne-Marie.Mahfouf.mail;
</para>

<!-- TRANS:CREDIT_FOR_TRANSLATORS -->
&underFDL;
&underGPL;

</chapter>

<appendix id="installation">
<title>Installation</title>

&install.intro.documentation;

&install.compile.documentation;

</appendix>

&documentation.index; 

</book>

