<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE book PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN" "dtd/kdex.dtd" [
 <!ENTITY kappname "&kthesaurus;">
 <!ENTITY wordnet "WordNet">
 <!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
 <!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE" > <!-- change language only here -->
]>

<book lang="&language;">
<bookinfo>
<title>&kthesaurus;</title>

<authorgroup>
<author>
<firstname>Daniel</firstname>
<surname>Naber</surname>
<affiliation><address><email>daniel.naber@t-online.de</email></address></affiliation> 
</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<date>2003-04-12</date>
<releaseinfo>0.95.00</releaseinfo>

<copyright>
<year>2002</year>
<year>2003</year>
<holder>Daniel Naber</holder>
</copyright>

<abstract>
<para>
&kthesaurus; lists words related to a given term and offers a user interface
to &wordnet;, a powerful lexical reference system. By default, only the
English language is supported.
</para>
</abstract>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>thesaurus</keyword>
<keyword>WordNet</keyword>
<keyword>synonyms</keyword>
<keyword>dictionary</keyword>
<keyword>lexicon</keyword>
<keyword>English</keyword>
<keyword>words</keyword>
</keywordset>

</bookinfo>


<chapter id="thesaurus">
<title>The Thesaurus Tab</title>

<para>The <guilabel>Thesaurus</guilabel> tab offers a small thesaurus,
built from a subset of <link linkend="frontend">&wordnet;</link>. 
The results are listed in three
categories: <guilabel>Synonyms</guilabel>, <guilabel>More General
Words</guilabel> (hypernyms), <guilabel>More Specific
Words</guilabel> (hyponyms). Synonyms are words with a very similar meaning.
They do not necessarily apply to all senses of each word, so you cannot 
always replace a word with any synonym.</para>

<para>You can double click on a word to search for its synonyms &etc;.
You can also type a word directly into the <guilabel>Search for:</guilabel>
box at the top and press
<keycap>Return</keycap>. The word which is currently visible in the
<guilabel>Replace with:</guilabel> box at the bottom is the one that will 
be used if you click on <guibutton>Replace</guibutton>.</para>

<note><para>&kthesaurus; can be used as a standalone application, but it can also be 
used from other applications (like &kword;, typically by right clicking
on a word and selecting <guilabel>Show related words</guilabel>). 
The <guibutton>Replace</guibutton> button will only be visible
on a word and selecting <guilabel>Show Related Words</guilabel>). 
The <guibutton>Replace with:</guibutton> button will only be visible
if &kthesaurus; is called from another application.</para></note>

<para>We have to keep the data file small so that it can be
included in &koffice; &mdash; this introduces several limitations 
(compared to &wordnet;):</para>

<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para>Only exact matches are found, &eg; if you search for a plural
form nothing will be found.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Many not so common words have been removed.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>It doesn't distinguish between parts of speech, e.g. verbs and
nouns are mixed up in the lists of words.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>It won't separate the different meanings words can have.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Adjectives don't really have a <quote>more general</quote> / <quote>more specific</quote>
meaning, so one word may appear in more than one list at the same time.</para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>

<para>On the other hand, a few words have been added (function words like <quote>if</quote>
and very few words specific to &kde;).</para>

<para>Please do <emphasis>not</emphasis> report bugs in the thesaurus
to the &wordnet; project, but to &kde;.</para>

</chapter>


<chapter id="languages">
<title>Using languages besides English</title>

<para>By default, only the English language is supported 
in &kthesaurus;. You can check out
<ulink url="http://www.koffice.org/addons/#thesauri">the
KOffice download page</ulink> to see which other languages 
are available.</para>

</chapter>


<chapter id="frontend">
<title>The &wordnet; tab</title>

<para>The <guilabel>&wordnet;</guilabel> tab provides a user interface
to a local installation of <ulink url="http://www.cogsci.princeton.edu/~wn/">&wordnet; 1.7</ulink>.
&wordnet; is <quote>an online lexical reference
system whose design is inspired by current psycholinguistic theories
of human lexical memory.</quote> The &kthesaurus; user interface offers nearly all options
which are available on the command line. It calls the <command>wn</command> binary,
which has to be in your <envar>PATH</envar>.</para>

<para>To learn more about &wordnet;, please see the &wordnet; <command>man</command> pages
or have a look at the <ulink url="http://www.cogsci.princeton.edu/~wn/">&wordnet; homepage</ulink>.
</para>

</chapter>


<chapter id="legal">
<title>Copyright and Licensing</title>

<para>
&kthesaurus; and this documentation is copyrighted by Daniel Naber.
</para>

<!-- TRANS:CREDIT_FOR_TRANSLATORS -->
&underFDL;
&underGPL;

</chapter>


&documentation.index; 

</book>
