<sect1 id="commands-menus">
<title>Menus</title>

<para>
Some of &krita;'s menus are standard in &kde; or &koffice;, while others are
particular to &krita;. The <guimenu>File</guimenu> menu contains commands for
manipluating files. In the <guimenu>Edit</guimenu> menu, you can find commands
that do things with the current selection.  With the commands from the
<guimenu>View</guimenu> menu, you can change the way you look at the image.
The <guimenu>Image</guimenu> menu contains commands that change the entire
image, like converting all layers to another color model or resizing or
scaling the image. The <guimenu>Layer</guimenu> menu is like the
<guimenu>Image</guimenu> menu, but the commands only work on the current
layer. The <guimenu>Select</guimenu> menu contains commands to create and
manipulate selections. The <guimenu>Filter</guimenu> menu contains all the
filters you have installed. These work on the current layer. The
<guimenu>Scripts</guimenu> menu contains entries for working with scripts.
The <guimenu>Settings</guimenu> menu is again common to &koffice; and allows
you to manipulate the toolbars, shortcuts and configuration of &krita;.
Finally, the <guimenu>Help</guimenu> menu gives you access to various
(hopefully helpful) information, such as this handbook.
</para>

<!-- ====== File ================================================ -->

<sect2 id="commands-menus-file">
<title>The <guimenu>File</guimenu> Menu</title>
<para>
<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo
action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>N</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>New</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Creates a new document.</action> This displays the
<guilabel>New document</guilabel> dialog, standard across &koffice;, in which
you can choose to start with a blank document of a certain type, or to open a
recently opened document.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo
action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>O</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Open...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Opens an existing document.</action>
Because this uses the usual &kde; <guilabel>Open Document</guilabel>
dialog to let you select a file, you can open files via various protocols
(ftp, fish, etcetera).
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Open Recent</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Opens a recently
opened document.</action> Clicking this menu item will show a 
submenu with the ten most recently opened documents in which
you can quickly open an image you have been working on lately.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo
action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>S</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Save</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Saves the document.</action> If you
haven't saved the document before, you will get the <guilabel>Save
Document As</guilabel> dialog, otherwise the document will be saved under
its current name. </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Save As...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Saves the document under a different name.</action>
The default &kde; dialog is used, so saving remotely via ftp
or ssh (fish) is perfectly possible.</para> </listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Reload</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Reloads the current document
from disk.</action> All changes since you last saved the document
will be lost.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Import...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Opens an existing document.</action> (For the moment,
this is the same as
<menuchoice><guimenu>File</guimenu><guimenuitem>Open</guimenuitem></menuchoice>.)
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Export...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Saves the document under a different name.</action> (For
the moment, this is the same as
<menuchoice><guimenu>File</guimenu><guimenuitem>Save
As...</guimenuitem></menuchoice>.)
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Mail...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Sends the document via email.</action> The default &kde;
mail compose window will be used.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo
action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>P</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Print...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Prints the document.</action> You will see the usual
&kde; print dialog appear.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Print Preview...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Shows a preview of what the printed document
will look like.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Document Information</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Opens the <link
linkend="commands-dialogs-misc-documentinformation"><guilabel>Document
Information</guilabel> dialog</link>.</action> This dialog can be used to add
various information to the image, like title, subject, keywords, author
information, and any other information you want to save with the
image.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo
action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>W</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Close</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Closes the document.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo
action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>Q</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Quit</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Quits &krita;.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>
</para>

</sect2>

<!-- ====== Edit ================================================ -->


<sect2 id="commands-menus-edit">
<title>The <guimenu>Edit</guimenu> Menu</title>
<para>
<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo
action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>Z</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Undo</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Undoes the last action carried out.</action> Actions
(like painting a stroke, filling an area, etcetera) are stored on
a <quote>stack</quote>. The last action you did will be undone, and the image is
restored to the state before that. Choosing <guimenuitem>Undo</guimenuitem> 
again will undo the action before that, etcetera.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo
action="simul">&Ctrl;&Shift;<keycap>Z</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Redo</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Redoes the last action undone.</action> As described at
<guimenuitem>Undo</guimenuitem>, a series of actions can be undone. With
<guimenuitem>Redo</guimenuitem>, an action undone is carried out again, and if
more actions have been undone before that, you can redo these in
turn.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo
action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>X</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Cut</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Cuts the selection to the
clipboard.</action> The current selection is put on the &kde; 
clipboard, and the selection is cleared.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo
action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>C</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Copy</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Copies the selection to the
clipboard.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo
action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>V</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Paste</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Pastes the contents of the
clipboard.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Paste into New Image</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Pastes the contents of the
clipboard as a new image.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Clear</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Clears the selection.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo
action="simul">&Alt;&Backspace;</keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Fill with Foreground Color</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Fills the selection with the current foreground
color.</action> The current foreground color is shown in the top left color
square of the <guilabel>Colors</guilabel> palette.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>&Backspace;</shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Fill with Background Color</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Fills the selection with the current background
color.</action> The current background color is shown in the bottom right color
square in the top left corner of the <guilabel>Colors</guilabel>
palette.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Fill with Pattern</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Fills the selection with the current pattern.</action>
The current pattern is shown on the <guilabel>Brush Shapes</guilabel> toolbar,
usually at the top right of the &krita; window.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Resources</guisubmenu>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Contains options for working with color
palettes.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Resources</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Add New Palette...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Opens the <link
linkend="commands-dialogs-misc-addpalette"><guilabel>Add Palette</guilabel>
dialog</link>.</action> You can create a custom color palette
here.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Resources</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Edit Palette...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Opens the <guilabel>Edit Palette</guilabel>
dialog.</action> Choose a color palette to edit from this list. You will then be
given the same dialog as with <guilabel>Add Palette</guilabel>, with the
difference that you edit the chosen color palette instead of adding a new
one.</para>
</listitem></varlistentry>

</variablelist>
</para>

</sect2>

<!-- ====== View ================================================ -->


<sect2 id="commands-menus-view">
<title>The <guimenu>View</guimenu> Menu</title>
<para>
<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo
action="simul">&Ctrl;&Shift;<keycap>F</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>View</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Full Screen Mode</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Switches between normal view
and full screen view.</action> In full screen view, the title
bar is hidden and the actual application window is resized to the entire
screen.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>View</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>New View</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Opens a new view for the
current document.</action> A new application window is opened
so that you can have two different views of the same document, for example
to work on different areas at the same time, or to look at an area at different
zoom levels simultaneously. Changes you make to the document in one view are
immediately visible in other views.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo
action="simul">&Ctrl;&Shift;<keycap>W</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>View</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Close All Views</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Closes all views.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>View</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Split View</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Splits the current view.</action> The
drawing area will be split into two parts, which can be used
just like two views in different windows.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>View</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Remove View</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Unsplits the view.</action> The second
view (the bottom or right one) will be closed and the first one will remain
visible.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>View</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Splitter Orientation</guisubmenu>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Changes the way the split
view is displayed.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>View</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Splitter Orientation</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Vertical</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Changes the orientation of
the splitter to vertical.</action> The two split
views will be positioned side by side.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>View</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Splitter Orientation</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Horizontal</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Changes the orientation of
the splitter to horizontal.</action> The two split views will
be positioned above each other.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo
action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>+</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>View</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Zoom In</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Zooms in on the view.</action> The view
will be more detailed, but a smaller area will be visible at the
same time.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo
action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>-</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>View</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Zoom Out</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Zooms out of the view.</action> A larger
area will be visible at the same time, but it will be less
detailed.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo
action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>0</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>View</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Actual Pixels</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Zooms the view to actual pixel
level.</action> (1:1 scale)</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>View</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Actual Size</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Zooms the view to the actual image
size.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>View</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Fit to Page</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Zooms the view so that the image fills the available
workspace.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo
action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>R</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>View</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Show Rulers</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Toggles display of the
rulers on and off.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>View</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Show Grid</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Toggles display of the
grid lines on and off.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>View</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Grid Spacing</guisubmenu>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Contains various options to set the distance between
grid lines.</action> The available spacing options are
<guimenuitem>1x1</guimenuitem>, <guimenuitem>2x2</guimenuitem>,
<guimenuitem>5x5</guimenuitem>, <guimenuitem>10x10</guimenuitem>,
<guimenuitem>20x20</guimenuitem>, and <guimenuitem>40x40</guimenuitem>.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>View</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Palettes</guisubmenu>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Allows you to toggle the
display of the various palettes on and off.</action> The
default view of &krita; shows all palettes, and the items are listed as Hide
<replaceable>palette</replaceable> therefore. When a certain palette is hidden,
the corresponding menu item changes to Show
<replaceable>palette</replaceable>.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo
action="simul">&Ctrl;&Shift;<keycap>H</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>View</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Palettes</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Hide All Palette Windows</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Hides all palettes.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>View</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Palettes</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Hide Overview</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Hides the
<guilabel>Overview</guilabel> palette.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>View</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Palettes</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Hide HSV</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Hides the
<guilabel>HSV</guilabel> palette.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>View</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Palettes</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Hide RGB</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Hides the
<guilabel>RGB</guilabel> palette.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>View</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Palettes</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Hide Gray</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Hides the
<guilabel>Gray</guilabel> palette.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>View</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Palettes</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Hide Palettes</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Hides the
<guilabel>Palettes</guilabel> palette.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>View</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Palettes</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Hide Layers</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Hides the <guilabel>Layers</guilabel>
palette.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>View</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Palettes</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Hide Scripts Manager</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Hides the <guilabel>Scripts Manager</guilabel>.
</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>View</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Palettes</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Hide Histogram</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Hides the
<guilabel>Histogram</guilabel> palette.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>View</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Palettes</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Hide Watercolors</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Hides the <guilabel>Watercolors</guilabel>
palette.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>View</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Palettes</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Hide Brush, Ellipse, Filter tool, Line, Polygon &etc;</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Hides the palette of the selected 
<guilabel>Tool</guilabel>.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>View</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Wetness Visualisation</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Toggles indication of the wetness of watercolor paint
on and off.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>
</para>

</sect2>

<!-- ====== Image =============================================== -->


<sect2 id="commands-menus-image">
<title>The <guimenu>Image</guimenu> Menu</title>
<para>
<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Image</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Image Properties</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Opens the <link
linkend="commands-dialogs-image-imageproperties"><guilabel>Image
Properties</guilabel> dialog</link>,
in which you can change the image name, size,
profile and description.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Image</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Resize Image to Size of Current Layer</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Resizes the image to the
size of the currently active layer.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Image</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Rotate</guisubmenu>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Rotates the image.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Image</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Rotate</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Rotate Image...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Opens the <link
linkend="commands-dialogs-image-rotateimage"><guilabel>Rotate Image</guilabel>
dialog</link>.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Image</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Rotate</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Rotate Image CW</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Rotates the image 90 degrees
clockwise.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Image</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Rotate</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Rotate Image CCW</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Rotates the image 90 degrees counterclockwise
(270 degrees clockwise).</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Image</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Rotate</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Rotate 180</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Rotates the image 180 degrees.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Image</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Convert Image Type...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Opens the <link
linkend="commands-dialogs-image-convertimagetype"><guilabel>Convert All
Layers</guilabel> dialog</link>.</action> This allows you to convert the image
to a different color space. Apart from the color space, the profile and
rendering intent can be specified as well.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Image</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Separate Image...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Opens the
<link linkend="commands-dialogs-image-separateimage"><guilabel>Separate Image</guilabel>
dialog</link>.</action> You can separate the image into layers for each
individual colorspace component there.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Image</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Change Image Size...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Opens the
<link linkend="commands-dialogs-image-imagesize"><guilabel>Image Size</guilabel>
dialog </link>.</action> You can resize or scale the image using various
algorithms here.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Image</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Shear Image...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Opens the <link
linkend="commands-dialogs-image-shearimage"><guilabel>Shear Image</guilabel>
dialog</link>.</action> You can shear the image in X or Y directions,
or both.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>
</para>

</sect2>

<!-- ====== Layer =============================================== -->

<sect2 id="commands-menus-layer">
<title>The <guimenu>Layer</guimenu> Menu</title>

<para>
<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Layer</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>New</guisubmenu>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Creates a new layer.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo
action="simul">&Ctrl;&Shift;<keycap>N</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Layer</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>New</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Add...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Opens the
<link linkend="commands-dialogs-layers-newlayer"><guilabel>New Layer</guilabel>
dialog</link>.</action> This will create a new empty
layer. You can set the name, opacity, composite mode and
layer type.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Layer</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>New</guisubmenu>
<guisubmenu>Object Layer</guisubmenu>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Creates a new layer for a
given &koffice; object type.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Layer</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>New</guisubmenu>
<guisubmenu>Object Layer</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Scalable Graphics</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Creates a new layer for an
embedded &karbon14; object.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Layer</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>New</guisubmenu>
<guisubmenu>Object Layer</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Text Documents</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Creates a new layer for an
embedded &kword; document.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Layer</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>New</guisubmenu>
<guisubmenu>Object Layer</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Flowchart &amp; Diagram</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Creates a new layer for an embedded
&kivio; object.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Layer</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>New</guisubmenu>
<guisubmenu>Object Layer</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Slide Presentations</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Creates a new layer for an embedded
&kpresenter; object.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Layer</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>New</guisubmenu>
<guisubmenu>Object Layer</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Image Object</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Creates a new layer for an
embedded &krita; object.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Layer</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>New</guisubmenu>
<guisubmenu>Object Layer</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Report Template</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Creates a new layer for an embedded
&kugar; Designer object.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Layer</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>New</guisubmenu>
<guisubmenu>Object Layer</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Chart</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Creates a new layer for an
embedded &kchart; object.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Layer</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>New</guisubmenu>
<guisubmenu>Object Layer</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Formula Editor</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Creates a new layer for an
embedded &kformula; object.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Layer</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>New</guisubmenu>
<guisubmenu>Object Layer</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Report Generator</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Creates a new layer for an
embedded &kugar; object.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Layer</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>New</guisubmenu>
<guisubmenu>Object Layer</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Project Management</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Creates a new layer for an
embedded KPlato object.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Layer</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>New</guisubmenu>
<guisubmenu>Object Layer</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Spreadsheets</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Creates a new layer for an
embedded &kspread; document.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Layer</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>New</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Adjustment Layer</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Opens the <link
linkend="commands-dialogs-layers-newadjustmentlayer"><guilabel>New Adjustment
Layer</guilabel>dialog</link>.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Layer</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>New</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Insert Image as Layer...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Opens the <guilabel>Import Image</guilabel>
dialog.</action> You can browse and select an image file,
which will be inserted in a new layer.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo
action="simul">&Ctrl;&Shift;<keycap>J</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Layer</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>New</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Cut Selection to New Layer</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Cuts the current selection
and inserts it as a new layer.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo
action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>J</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Layer</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>New</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Copy Selection to New Layer</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Copies the current selection
and inserts it as a new layer.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Layer</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Remove</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Removes the current layer
and its contents.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Layer</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Duplicate</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Duplicates the current
layer.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Layer</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Hide/Show</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Toggles the visibility of
the current layer in the image editing window.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo
action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>]</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Layer</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Raise</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Moves the current layer one
level upward.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo
action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>[</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Layer</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Lower</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Moves the current layer one
level downward.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo
action="simul">&Ctrl;&Shift;<keycap>]</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Layer</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>To Top</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Moves the current layer to the
top.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo
action="simul">&Ctrl;&Shift;<keycap>[</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Layer</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>To Bottom</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Moves the current layer to
the bottom.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Layer</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Save Layer as Image...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Opens the <guilabel>Export Layer</guilabel>
dialog.</action> The current layer will be saved to the
chosen file.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Layer</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Flip on X Axis</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Flips the current layer
horizontally.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Layer</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Flip on Y Axis</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Flips the current layer
vertically.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Layer</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Properties</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Opens the <link
linkend="commands-dialogs-layers-layerproperties"><guilabel>Layer
Properties</guilabel>dialog</link>.</action> You can change the name,
colorspace, opacity, composite mode and position of the current layer
here.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo
action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>E</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Layer</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Merge Layer</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Merges the current layer
with the one below it.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo
action="simul">&Ctrl;&Shift;<keycap>E</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Layer</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Merge Visible Layers</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Merges all visible layers.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Layer</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Merge All Layers</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Merges all layers together.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Layer</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Rotate</guisubmenu>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Rotates the current layer.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Layer</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Rotate</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Rotate Layer...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Opens the <link
linkend="commands-dialogs-layers-rotatelayer"><guilabel>Rotate Layer</guilabel>
dialog</link>.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Layer</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Rotate</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Rotate CW</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Rotates the current layer 90 degrees
clockwise.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Layer</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Rotate</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Rotate CCW</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Rotates the current layer 90 degrees counterclockwise
(270 degrees clockwise).</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Layer</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Rotate</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Rotate 180</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Rotates the current layer by
180 degrees.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Layer</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Histogram...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Opens the <link
linkend="commands-dialogs-layers-histogram"><guilabel>Histogram</guilabel>
dialog</link>, in which you can see histograms for the current
layer.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Layer</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Convert Layer Type...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Opens the
<link linkend="commands-dialogs-layers-convertlayertype"><guilabel>Convert
Current Layer</guilabel> dialog</link>.</action> You can
set various options with respect to the colorspace and
rendering intent.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Layer</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Change Layer Size...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Opens the <link
linkend="commands-dialogs-layers-layersize"><guilabel>Layer
Size</guilabel> dialog</link>.</action> You can choose the new
dimensions and the resize filter to use.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Layer</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Layer Effects</guisubmenu>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Contains commands to add effects to the current layer.
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Layer</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Layer Effects</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Add Drop Shadow...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Opens the <link
linkend="commands-dialogs-layers-dropshadow"><guilabel>Drop Shadow</guilabel>
dialog</link>.</action> This dialog can be used to add a drop shadow beneath
the current layer.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Layer</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Shear Layer...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Opens the <link
linkend="commands-dialogs-layers-shearlayer"><guilabel>Shear Layer</guilabel>
dialog</link>.</action> You can select the X and Y angles to shear
by.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>
</para>

</sect2>

<!-- ====== Select ============================================== -->


<sect2 id="commands-menus-select">
<title>The <guimenu>Select</guimenu> Menu</title>
<para>
<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo
action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>A</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Select</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Select All</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Selects the entire
current layer.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo
action="simul">&Ctrl;&Shift;<keycap>A</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Select</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Deselect</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Unselects everything.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo
action="simul">&Ctrl;&Shift;<keycap>D</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Select</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Reselect</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Reselects the previous
unselected areas.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo
action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>I</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Select</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Invert</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Inverts the selection.</action>
(Everything that is selected will be unselected and vice
versa.)</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo
action="simul">&Alt;&Ctrl;<keycap>D</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Select</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Feather...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Feathers the selection.</action> (Adds
a soft border around it.)</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Select</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Hide Selection</guisubmenu>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Hides the selection.</action> The selection is still
active, but it is not made visible anymore.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Select</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Color Range...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Opens the <link
linkend="commands-dialogs-images-colorrange"><guilabel>Color Range</guilabel>
dialog</link>.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>
</para>

</sect2>

<!-- ====== Filter ============================================== -->


<sect2 id="commands-menus-filter">
<title>The <guimenu>Filter</guimenu> Menu</title>

<para>See the <link linkend="filters">Filters</link> chapter for more
information on filters.</para> <para>
<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo
action="simul">&Ctrl;&Shift;<keycap>J</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Filter</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Apply Filter Again</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Repeats the last filter
action.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Filter</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Adjust</guisubmenu>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Contains various options for changing the
colors in your image.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Filter</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Adjust</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Auto Contrast</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Automatically changes the image to obtain as much
contrast as possible.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Filter</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Adjust</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Brightness/Contrast...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Opens the
<link
linkend="commands-dialogs-filters-brightnesscontrast"><guilabel>Brightness/Contrast</guilabel>
dialog</link>.</action> You can set the
brightness and contrast ratio of your image here.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Filter</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Adjust</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Desaturate</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Desaturates the image.</action> This
will effectively convert the current image to grayscale, but all subsequent
painting is done with usual colors.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Filter</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Adjust</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Color Adjustment...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Opens the <link
linkend="commands-dialogs-filters-coloradjustment"><guilabel>Color Adjustment</guilabel>
dialog</link>.</action> You can adjust the colorspace components
of the current image there (for example, in an RGB image, you can change the
contribution of red, green, and blue to the total image).</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Filter</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Artistic</guisubmenu>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Contains various filters for
<quote>artistic</quote> actions.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Filter</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Artistic</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Cubism...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Opens the <link
linkend="commands-dialogs-filters-cubism"><guilabel>Cubism</guilabel>
dialog</link>.</action> This allows you to add a cubism effect to the
selection or image.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Filter</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Artistic</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Oilpaint...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Opens the <link
linkend="commands-dialogs-filters-oilpaint"><guilabel>Oilpaint</guilabel>
dialog</link> to add
an oilpaint effect to the selection or image.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Filter</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Artistic</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Raindrops...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Opens the <link
linkend="commands-dialogs-filters-raindrops"><guilabel>Raindrops</guilabel>
dialog</link> to add a raindrops effect to the selection or
image.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Filter</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Artistic</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Dry the Paint</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Dries wet paint.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Filter</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Blur</guisubmenu>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Contains various blur filters.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Filter</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Blur</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Gaussian Blur</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Performs a slight blur on the image or
selection.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Filter</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Blur</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Pixelize...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Opens the <link
linkend="commands-dialogs-filters-pixelize"><guilabel>Pixelize</guilabel>
dialog</link> to pixelize the image.</action> (A block of pixels is
changed so that they all become the same, averaged color.)</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Filter</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Colors</guisubmenu>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Contains filters that change the image colors.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Filter</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Colors</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Invert</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Inverts the image or
selection.</action> (Black becomes white, blue becomes yellow,
etcetera.)</para></listitem> </varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Filter</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Decor</guisubmenu>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Contains decorative filters.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Filter</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Decor</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Round Corners...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Opens the <link
linkend="commands-dialogs-filters-roundcorners"><guilabel>Round
Corners</guilabel> dialog</link> to round off the corners of the image or
selection.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Filter</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Edge Detection</guisubmenu>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Contains edge detecting filters.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Filter</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Edge Detection</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Bottom Edge Detection</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Performs edge detection with the bottom sides of image
parts as references.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Filter</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Edge Detection</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Left Edge Detection</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Performs edge detection with the left sides of image
parts as references.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Filter</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Edge Detection</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Right Edge Detection</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Performs edge detection with the right sides of image
parts as references.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Filter</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Edge Detection</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Sobel...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Opens the <guilabel>Sobel</guilabel>
dialog.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Filter</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Edge Detection</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Top Edge Detection</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Performs edge detection with the top sides of image
parts as references.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Filter</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Enhance</guisubmenu>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Contains image enhancing
filters.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Filter</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Enhance</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Custom Convolution...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Opens the <link
linkend="commands-dialogs-filters-customconvolution"><guilabel>Custom
Convolution</guilabel> dialog</link>.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Filter</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Enhance</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Mean Removal</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Sharpens the image or selection by aggravating color
borders.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Filter</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Enhance</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Sharpen</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Sharpens the image or selection.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Filter</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Enhance</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Simple Noise Reduction</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Reduces noise in the image or
selection.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Filter</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Enhance</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Wavelet Noise Reducer</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Reduces noise in the image or
selection.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Filter</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Emboss</guisubmenu>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Contains emboss filters.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Filter</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Emboss</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Emboss Horizontal &amp; Vertical</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Embosses the image or selection on the two main
directions.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Filter</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Emboss</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Emboss with Variable Depth...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Opens the <link
linkend="commands-dialogs-filters-emboss"><guilabel>Emboss</guilabel>
dialog</link>.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Filter</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Emboss</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Emboss in All Directions</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Embosses the image or
selection.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Filter</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Emboss</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Emboss Horizontal Only</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Embosses the image or selection on the horizontal axis
only.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Filter</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Emboss</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Emboss Laplascian</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Embosses the image or selection using the Laplace
technique.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Filter</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Emboss</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Emboss Vertical Only</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Embosses the image or selection on the vertical axis
only.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Filter</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Map</guisubmenu>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Contains map filters.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Filter</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Map</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Small Tiles...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Shrinks the image or selection and then tiles
it.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Filter</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Other</guisubmenu>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Contains miscellaneous filters.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Filter</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Other</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Bumpmap...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Opens the <link
linkend="commands-dialogs-filters-bumpmap"><guilabel>Bumpmap</guilabel>
dialog</link>.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Filter</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Other</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>CImg Image Restoration...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Opens the <link
linkend="commands-dialogs-filters-imagerestauration"><guilabel>Image
Restauration</guilabel> dialog</link>.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Filter</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Filters Gallery</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Opens the
<link linkend="commands-dialogs-filters-filtersgallery"><guilabel>Filters
Gallery</guilabel> dialog</link>.</action> This
shows previews of the various filters and allows for easy
comparison.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>
</para>

</sect2>

<!-- ====== Scripts ============================================= -->


<sect2 id="commands-menus-scripts">
<title>The <guimenu>Scripts</guimenu> Menu</title>
<para>
<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Scripts</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Execute Script File</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Executes a script file.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Scripts</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Script Manager</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Opens the <guilabel>Script Manager</guilabel> dialog.
</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>
</para>

</sect2>

<!-- ====== Settings ============================================ -->

<sect2 id="commands-menus-settings">
<title>The <guimenu>Settings</guimenu> Menu</title>
<para>
<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Toolbars</guisubmenu>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Contains options to display or hide the various
toolbars.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Toolbars</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>File</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Displays or hides the <guilabel>File</guilabel>
toolbar.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Toolbars</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Edit</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Displays or hides the <guilabel>Edit</guilabel>
toolbar.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Toolbars</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Navigation</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Displays or hides the <guilabel>Navigation</guilabel>
toolbar.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Toolbars</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>&krita;</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Displays or hides the
<guilabel>&krita;</guilabel> toolbar.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Toolbars</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Brushes and Stuff</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Displays or hides the
<guilabel>Brushes and Stuff</guilabel> toolbar.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Configure Shortcuts...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Opens the <guilabel>Configure Shortcuts
</guilabel> dialog.</action> This dialog is common to most &kde; applications
and allows you to configure shortcuts for all actions &krita; has to
offer.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Configure Toolbars...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Opens the <guilabel>Configure Toolbars</guilabel>
dialog.</action> This dialog is common to most &kde; applications
and allows you to configure &krita;'s toolbars.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Configure &krita;...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Opens the
<link linkend="settings-preferences"><guilabel>Preferences</guilabel>
dialog</link>.</action> You can configure &krita; here to match your personal
preferences.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>
</para>

</sect2>


<!-- ====== Help ================================================ -->

<sect2 id="commands-menus-help">
<title>The <guimenu>Help</guimenu> Menu</title>
&help.menu.documentation;
</sect2>

</sect1>
