<chapter id="faq">
<title>Questions and Answers</title>

<para>
Sometimes, stuff does not work as one would like. &krita; can crash — not all
that often, these days, but still. So you might need some help. The first thing
to do is trying to determine what was going on, exactly. Try to reproduce the
problem and write down what you did before the problem occurred.
</para><para>
Then you can create a bug report: go to the <guimenu>Help</guimenu> menu and select
<guimenuitem>Report Bug</guimenuitem>. That way, we know exactly which version of
&krita; you are using. Please try to make reasonably sure that your problem has
not been reported already! Also, please try to be as complete as possible in
describing your problem.
</para><para>
You can also, if it is just that you cannot figure out how to do something
that you can do using Photoshop (or any other drawing program) using &krita;,
or if you have some other question, e-mail the &krita; developers at our
mailing list <email>kimageshop@kde.org</email>, or e-mail the maintainer
or documentation maintainer directly at <email>boud@valdyas.org</email> or
<email>sanderkoning@kde.nl</email>, respectively.
</para>

<!-- TODO Add a set of Q&As? -->

&reporting.bugs;
&updating.documentation;

<!-- <qandaset id="faqlist">
<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>My Mouse doesn't work. How do I quit &kmyapplication;?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>You silly goose! Check out the <link linkend="commands">Commands
Section</link> for the answer.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>
<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>Why can't I twiddle my documents?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>You can only twiddle your documents if you have the foobar.lib
installed.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>
</qandaset> -->

</chapter>

