<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE book PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.1.2-Based Variant V1.0//EN" "dtd/kdex.dtd" [
  <!ENTITY kappname "&krita;">
  <!ENTITY package "koffice">
  <!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE" >
  <!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
  <!ENTITY quicktour SYSTEM "quicktour.docbook">
  <!ENTITY settings  SYSTEM "settings.docbook">
 
]>

<book lang="&language;">

<bookinfo>
	<title>The &krita; Handbook</title>
	
	<authorgroup>
		<author>
		<firstname>Boudewijn</firstname>
		<othername>-</othername>
		<surname>Rempt</surname>
		<affiliation>
		<address><email>boud@valdyas.org</email></address>
		</affiliation>
		</author>
		<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
	</authorgroup>
	<copyright>
		<year>2005</year>
		<holder>Boudewijn Rempt</holder>
	</copyright>
	

	<!-- Date and version information of the documentation
	Don't forget to include this last date and this last revision number, we
	need them for translation coordination !
	Please respect the format of the date (DD/MM/YYYY) and of the version
	(Major.minor.lesser), it could be used by automation scripts -->
	
	<date>2005-04-01</date>
	<releaseinfo>0.00.00</releaseinfo>
	
	<!-- Abstract about this handbook -->
	
	<abstract>
		<para>
		&krita; is part of the &koffice; package. &krita; is a photo retouching,
		image editing application, but above all, a paint application that will
		allow you to create original art on your computer as if you were working
		with paint and brushes, pencils, pen and ink -- or, at least, it will one
		day. We're continually working on extending &krita; and making it better in ever 
		respect.
		</para>
	</abstract>
	
	
	<keywordset>
		<keyword>KDE</keyword>
		<keyword>Kapp</keyword>
		<keyword>Krita</keyword>
		<keyword>KOffice</keyword>
		<keyword>image manipulation</keyword>
		<keyword>graphics</keyword>
		<keyword>painting</keyword>
	</keywordset>

</bookinfo>

<chapter id="introduction">
<title>Introduction</title>

<para>&krita; is,
just like the rest of &koffice; open source and in a permanent state of
development. If the release you are using now doesn't do what you want --
from editing your holiday snapshots or repairing your great-grandfather's daguerrotype
portrait, from quickly creating a logo with cool effects to painting the
next Vermeer, but with pixels instead of oils, then there is a fair chance
the very next version will help you out, if you help us out by making
your wishes known, reporting the bugs you've experienced and, who knows?, sending
us a fix already, or maybe a complete Krita plugin. We want Krita to be innovative,
fun and a pleasure to use -- and to hack -- so we're open to all kinds of suggestions.</para>

<para>Krita already in this version includes a more or less complete colour management
system, making the application useful for photographers, graphic designers and artists,
whether their works are meant for publication on the Web or in print.</para>

<sect1>
	<title>About this manual</title>

	<para>This manual describes Krita in as much detail as the author was able to manage
	when writing the text while compiling the application during development. In other
	words, it's not complete...  The manual assumes that you have a good working knowledge of
	KDE and the operating system you are running KDE on.</para>
</sect1>



</chapter>

&quicktour;
&settings;
</book>
