<chapter id="settings">

	<title>Settings</title>
	
	<para>This chapter describes the various settings that affect the way Krita functions and looks.</para>
	
	<sect1 id="settings-docker">
		
		<title>Palette Windows</title>
		
		<para>By default, Krita uses a set of four palette windows that can be docked to the
			left and right-hand side of the Krita window. These palette windows are always
			visible and are called "dockers".</para>

		<para>If you have a small screen and want to see as much of the image as possible, you
			can either close the docker windows (through the view menu) or select the other
			style of palette windows Krita offers: "sliders". These are panels that slide
			away into the rulers around your image, leaving only a title bar.</para>

		<para>Moving your mouse or stylus pointer over the title bar makes the window appear.
			You can use the titlebar to drag the sliders to another position and the window
			borders to resize the sliders. In fact, due to a bug in the code I have been
			unable to fix (XXX: append bugnumber0, you may have to slightly resize a slider's
			border to make them hide.</para>

		<para>Because of this bug. you cannot currently select the palette window from the
			Settings dialog, but if you add the line 
<programlisting>
"dockerStyle=0"
</programlisting>		
		to the file <filename>.kde/share/config/kritarc</filename> in the GENERAL section,
			Krita will give you silders instead of dockers.</para>


		<para>If you are dissatisfied with the
			sliders (because of the aforementioned bug, or because you've acquired a bigger
			monitor) you can set the "dockerStyle" attribute to "1". Higher numbers than 2 make
			Krita crash.</para>

		

	</sect1>

	<sect1 id="general-settings">

		<title>General Settings</title>

		<para>There is currently only one general setting: the cursor shape. This can either
			be the tool icon, a pointer or a crosshair. When I (or another Krita hacker)
			has figured out how to use the actual shape of the brush mask that'll be an
			option, too. A three-dimensional representation of a brush complete with
			shadow will be even longer in coming.</para>

	</sect1>

	<sect1 id="color-settings">

		<title>Color Settings</title>

		<para>Thanks to (XXX: url) LittleCms, Krita includes a complete color management
			system comparable to professional image manipulation applications. It's
			true that not everything has been implemented yet, but there are already
			a number of settings that are useful.</para>

		<para>Please consider the following screenshot: (XXX: Add screenshot)</para>


		<para>We will discuss each item separately.</para>

		<sect2>
			<title>Default working color model</title>

			<para></para>

		</sect2>

		<sect2>
			<title>Default working color model</title>

			<para></para>

		</sect2>

	</sect1>

</chapter>
