<chapter id="layers">
<title>Layers</title>

<para>
This chapter gives an overview of how layers work in &krita;, with special
notice of adjustment layers.
</para>

<sect1 id="layers-background">
<title>Background information on layers</title>

<para>
Extensive use of &krita; will almost require you to have some knowledge of
layers. Using layers, you can work on one part of the image without touching
the rest of it, and most effects are best applied on a layer, instead of on
the whole image. Of course, if you do want to apply an effect to an entire
image, &krita; does offer you that possibility, and there is nothing against
it.
</para><para>
The idea behind layers is quite simple. As the name suggests, layers lie on
top of each other, and together form the layer stack. The final resulting
image is that what you see when looking through the stack from top to bottom.
This means that usually the upper layers of your image will have more or less
transparency, since you cannot look through a layer which has no transparency.
(&krita; works with opaqueness instead of transparency. A layer that is 100
percent opaque is 0 percent transparent, and vice versa.) A layer higher in
the stack gets applied later than one lower in the stack. For example, the
effect that layer number 4 adds to the image, is applied to the result from
applying layers 1 through 3.
</para><para>
Every image you edit in &krita; contains layers. When you create a new image,
the layer box (usually shown at the bottom right of your screen, see <link
linkend="commands-palettes-layers-layers">this section</link>) will contain
one layer. The painting and editing you do is then applied to that layer. Once
you add more layers, you can choose on which part of the image you want to
work, by selecting the respective layer. All further painting is then applied
to that layer.
</para><para>
Layers are also an excellent way to check whether adding certain effects (or
applying certain image modifications) come out right. Add a layer which
contains what you want to try out, and show or hide it with the eye icon in
the layer box. You can especially profit from this method if you have multiple
effects: show and hide them in any combination, and decide which you like
best. And since you can move the layers around, you can also experiment with
the order in which the effects are applied.
</para><para>
See the <link linkend="tutorial-select-layer">Selections and layers
tutorial</link> for a small hands-on introduction.
</para>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="layers-layerbox">
<title>The layer box</title>

<para>The layer box is the instrument you will use most to work with layers. It
gives an overview of the layers that are present in your image, and using it
you can manage layers by adding, removing, reordering or modifying them.
</para><para>
The layer box consists of three parts. The middle part gives an overview of the
layers in the image. At the top, you can set some properties for the current
layer. At the bottom, a couple of layer management options can be found. The
next sections describe these three parts in more detail.
</para>

<sect2 id="layers-layerbox-overview"> 
<title>Layer overview</title>

<para>This part shows you which layers are present in your image. In a tree-like
structure, the layer group hierarchy is shown: layers that are contained within
a layer group are displayed a bit to the right to indicate their belonging to
that group. 
</para><para>
For each layer, a thumbnail preview and its name are shown. The layer name
is preceded by a folder icon if it is a group layer. Furthermore, two
indicators are present: the eye icon shows whether the layer is currently
visible (an open eye indicates that the layer is visible, a closed eye
indicates that it is not), and the lock icon shows whether the layer is
locked. No changes can be made to a locked layer.
</para><para>
When you click on a layer's eye icon, its visibility is switched from on to
off or vice versa. Clicking on the lock icon enables or disables editing of
that layer. You can click on the name of the current layer to rename it.
Note that to rename a layer, it has to be the current one. You do not need to
activate a layer in order to make it (in)visible or (un)locked via the eye and
lock icons, respectively: these work directly.
</para><para>
Doubleclick on a layer entry in the list to open the <link
linkend="commands-dialogs-layers-layerproperties"><guilabel>Layer
Properties</guilabel></link> dialog. This dialog shows a layer's colorspace and
profile. You can also change its name, opacity and composite mode here.
</para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="layers-layerbox-options"> 
<title>Layer options</title>
<para>
The top of the layer box contains two controls for setting properties of the
currently selected layer. The list box at the left allows you to quickly set
the layer's composite mode. The spin field and slider at the right can be used
to change the layer's opacity.
</para><para>
At the bottom of the layer box, there are five buttons. From left to right,
these are as follows. The <guibutton>New Layer</guibutton> icon brings up a
submenu from which you can choose which type of layer you want to add. This
menu can also be opened by clicking with the &RMB; on the layer box. The
<guibutton>Move Layer Down</guibutton> and <guibutton>Move Layer Up</guibutton>
buttons move the current layer one level down and up, respectively, within the
current layer group. If the layer is already the last or first within the
layer group, trying to move it further will move it out of the layer group.
The <guibutton>Layer Properties</guibutton> button opens the <link
linkend="commands-dialogs-layers-layerproperties"><guilabel>Layer
Properties</guilabel></link> dialog, just as when you would have doubleclicked
on the layer. The <guibutton>Delete Layer</guibutton> button deletes the
current layer.
</para>
</sect2>



</sect1>

<sect1 id="layers-adjustment">
<title>Adjustment Layers</title>

<para>Adjustment layers are layers that consist of a filter and an optional
selection. The filter effect is applied to the composite image of all
layers under the adjustment layer in the current layer group. The big
thing is, adjustment layers apply these effects non-destructively. The
original image data is not modified.
</para><para>
Almost all &krita; filters are suitable for use in adjustment
layers -- even filters that would downgrade the image quality. For instance,
the raindrops filter converts to 8-bit RGB before working its magic. If you
would try to use this filter directly on a 16-bit L*a*b* layer, &krita; would
warn you about the conversion to RGB and back again this filter would cause.
Not so with adjustment layers: the original data isn't touched, so applying
the filter is safe.
</para><para>
What about the colorspace of an adjustment layer then? In order to examine
this issue, you need to know what happens when &krita; renders an adjustment
layer.
</para>

<sect2 id="layers-adjustment-selections">
<title>Adjustment layers and selections</title>

<para>If the currently active layer has an active selection, then that selection
will be copied and used as a mask for the adjustment layer. If there is no
active selection, then there will be no mask and the adjustment will apply to
the entire extent of the layers under the adjustment layer in the current
group. There is <emphasis>no</emphasis> way of adding a mask to an existing
adjustment layer.
</para><para>
If there is a mask in the adjustment layer, you can edit the mask using the
ordinary painting tools and painting operations.
</para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="layers-adjustment-projection">
<title>A note on projections</title>

<para>
&krita; composites the layers bottom to top, within each layer group. The
aggregate -- or the projection as we hackers call it -- is then filtered by
the adjustment layer. If there are layers on top of the adjustment layer,
those are composited onto the projection. &krita; converts all layer data before
compositing, so if the bottom-most layer in an image is grayscale, all layers
are converted to grayscale before compositing -- and that means that the
adjustment layer projection will be grayscale, too.
</para><para>
With this knowledge you'll understand why &krita; can often offer better
performance working with layers on top of an adjustment layer which is on top
of a complex layer structure: &krita; uses the projection and doesn't even look
anymore at the layers under the adjustment layer. Unless, of course, you
change one of them.
</para>
</sect2>

</sect1>

</chapter>
