<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE book PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.1-Based Variant V1.0//EN" "dtd/kdex.dtd" [
  <!ENTITY kappname "&kformula;">
  <!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE" > <!-- change language only here -->
  <!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
  
  
]>

<book lang="&language;">

<bookinfo>
<title>The &kformula; Users Manual</title>

<authorgroup>
<author>
<firstname>Ulrich</firstname>
<othername></othername>
<surname>K&uuml;ttler</surname>
<affiliation>
<address><email>ulrich.kuettler@gmx.de</email></address>
</affiliation>
</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>



<legalnotice>&FDLNotice;</legalnotice>

<!-- Date and version information of the documentation
Don't forget to include this last date and this last revision number, we
need them for translation coordination !
Please respect the format of the date (DD/MM/YYYY) and of the version
(Major.minor.lesser), it could be used by automation scripts -->

<date>2002-02-19</date>
<releaseinfo>0.00.02</releaseinfo>

<!-- Abstract about this handbook -->

<abstract>
<para>
&kformula; is part of the &koffice; package.
</para>
</abstract>


<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>Kapp</keyword>
</keywordset>

</bookinfo>

<chapter id="introduction">
<title>Introduction</title>
<para>&kformula; is used to write formulas. It doesn't evaluate
anything. All it does is printing them.</para> 
<para>&kformula; was designed for your editing pleasure. It makes it
delightful to enter greek letter, fractions and all the stuff that
makes a formula look like, hmm, a formula.</para> 
<para>But most of the time you won't want to use &kformula; itself.
Instead you might choose to use it from within &kword; or any other
&koffice; application. That is &kformula; is not a useful application
on its own but an extention to all the other &koffice; applications
you've fallen in love with.</para>

<para>But don't fear! Where ever &kformula; gets embedded, it will
behave the same. So this documentation applies anyway.</para>

&underFDL;
&underGPL;

</chapter>

<chapter id="basics">
<title>Basics</title>
<para>A new (empty) &kformula; document looks like a small blue square.
This square stands for the central idea of &kformula;. It represents an
empty list. The idea of &kformula; is to have different elements
arranged in lists. An element in this respect might be a single char
or a root symbol or something like that. The lists are put together so
that they form a formula. That is there are lists for indexes, lower
and upper bounds and so on. And of course there is the main
list. What's the one we've just seen.</para>

<para>Writing a formula means to fill the empty list with letters,
figures and mathematical symbols. That is straightforward: use your
keyboard. As soon as you type something the "empty" symbol will vanish
and you will see whatever you have inserted instead. New characters
are always put at the current cursor position.</para>

<para>There is a toolbar called "Add" that allows you to create more
complex elements. There are indexes, fractions, roots and
matrices. Just to name name a few. All those elements consist of at
least one list, you can move the cursor into and insert new stuff.</para>

<para>A special feature is the name insertion. When you type a
backslash ('\') you get a new empty list right away. But this one is
special. It uses a different font and is meant to insert things like
function names. There is, however, a second idea here. Your keyboard
only has a limited number of keys. The wealth of mathematical symbols
on the other side is overwhelming. To get one of those you can type
its name and press the space key afterwards. The name you typed will
be replaced by the symbol then. By the way, normally the space key
means "get out of here", that is move the cursor to the containing
list.
</para>

<para>Another thing you might want to insert are spaces. We all know,
printing formulae is all about the right spacing. And you can do just
that using the "name list". Simply type the chars ',' or '&gt;' or ';'
to get a small, medium or thick space respectively. You also might
type the word 'quad' and the space you get will be even wider.</para>

</chapter>

<chapter id="advanced">
<title>Advanced editing</title>
<para>There is a lot to say about what can be done...</para>
</chapter>

<chapter id="elementlist">
<title>Element list</title>
<para>Every element has its peculiarities.</para>
</chapter>

<chapter id="fonts">
<title>Mathematical Fonts</title>
<para>The unicode table and font files.</para>
</chapter>

<chapter id="configuration">
<title>User configuration</title>
<para>Did you find "Settings/Configure KFormula..."?</para>
</chapter>

&documentation.index; 
</book>
<!--
Local Variables:
mode: sgml
sgml-minimize-attributes: nil
sgml-general-insert-case: lower
End:
-->

