<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE book PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.1-Based Variant V1.0//EN" "dtd/kdex.dtd" [
<!ENTITY kappname "&kspread;">
<!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
<!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE" > <!-- change language only here -->
]>

<book lang="&language;">
<bookinfo>
<title>The &kspread; Users Manual</title>
<authorgroup>
<author>
<firstname>Frank-Andreas</firstname>
<surname>Schmidt</surname>
</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup> 

<date>2000-01-30</date>
<releaseinfo>0.01.00</releaseinfo>

<abstract>
<para>&kspread; is complete a spreadsheet program. It is part of the
&koffice; suite of utilities.</para>
</abstract>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>KSpread</keyword>
<keyword>KOffice</keyword>
<keyword>Spreadsheet</keyword>
</keywordset>

</bookinfo>

<chapter id="todo">
<title>Still to be done on this manual</title>

<para>This is a list of things which still need work in this manual:</para>

<itemizedlist>
<listitem>
<para>A template only. Has to be filled with contents</para>
</listitem>
</itemizedlist>

</chapter>

<chapter id="introduction"><title>Introduction</title>
<para> This chapter will show the main features of &kspread; </para>

<sect1 id="Suite">
<title>The &koffice; environment</title>

<para>&kspread; is a full featured spreadsheet program. </para>

<para> It is part of the &koffice; productivity suite for the K Desktop
Environment.</para>

<para> Other applications in &koffice; include</para>
<para>
<simplelist type="vert" columns="1">
<member>&kword; (text processing and desktop publishing)</member>
<member>&kpresenter; (presentation creator)</member>
<member>&kontour; (a vector drawing program)</member>
<member>&krayon; (a bitmap image editor)</member>
<member>&kformula; (formula editor)</member>
<member>&kchart; (for charts/graphs)</member>
</simplelist>
</para>

<para>All &koffice; applications were designed from the beginning to
take advantage from &kde; 2.0.  Because of this, &kspread; (like all of
&koffice;), supports drag and drop, themes, and many other advanced
features.</para>

<para>&kspread; is a spreadsheet which can work as a traditional
table-oriented sheet but also allows to put in complex formula of higher
mathematics and statistics. There's also the possibility of putting the
data to visibility by using graphics </para>

<para> With the use of Python scripting there will be the possibility of
having automated processes within the spreadsheets such as pre-defined
input masks and calculation on demand.  </para>

<para>Other advantages are:</para>

<itemizedlist>
<listitem>
<para>This is only a template and has to be filled with information on
the main program features.</para>
</listitem>
</itemizedlist>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="who-reads">
<title>What parts of this guide should I read?</title>

<para>We have to distinguish between different types of users:</para>

<para>If you got this file without having installed the software, read
the chapter that deals with installation first.</para>

<para>If you are an experienced user who has a special question you may
try the reference section and/or the <acronym>FAQ</acronym>'s</para>

<para>If you got this file while working with &kspread; (by pressing
<keycap>F1</keycap>) it would be best to follow the chapter's link to
the Step-by-Step Guide</para>

</sect1>

</chapter>

<chapter id="fundamental">
<title>Fundamentals</title>

<para>This next section is designed to introduce you to:</para>

<orderedlist>
<listitem>
<para><link linkend="starting-kspread">How to start
&kspread;</link></para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>Rest deleted, will see to that later</para>
</listitem>
</orderedlist>

<sect1 id="starting-kspread">
<title>Starting &kspread;</title>

<para>&kspread; can be started one of three ways:</para>

<orderedlist>
<listitem>
<para>You can select &kspread; through the system menu by following the
&kde; Application menu
<menuchoice><guisubmenu>Applications</guisubmenu><guisubmenu>Office</guisubmenu><guimenuitem>KSpread</guimenuitem></menuchoice></para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>If you are in a terminal program (&konsole;,
<application>Xterm</application>, &etc;), you can type:
<userinput><command>kspread &amp;</command></userinput></para>
<para>Or</para>
<para><userinput><command>kspread <replaceable>filename</replaceable>
&amp;</command></userinput></para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>Using &konqueror;, you can click on your data file (&kspread;
documents normally end in <literal role="extension">.ksp</literal> but
it's not required).  This will automatically start &kspread; showing the
last edited table of the sheet.</para>
</listitem> 
</orderedlist>

</sect1>
</chapter>

<chapter id="tutorial">
<title>Step by Step Tutorial</title>

<para>Hopefully this tutorial has introduced you to the basics of
&kspread;.</para>
</chapter>

<chapter id="kspread-screen">
<title>The &kspread; Screen</title>

<sect1 id="overview">
<title>Overview</title>

<para>&kspread;, like most <acronym>GUI</acronym> based programes,
divides the screen up into several areas. Each are used to perform a
group of similar features. When you start the &kspread; screen, it is
initially divided into 4 major areas:</para> 

<orderedlist>
<listitem>
<para><link linkend="kdeframe">The &kde; Frame</link> (which remains at
the top of all programs run under &kde;).</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>Rest deleted.</para>
</listitem>
</orderedlist>

<sect2 id="kdeframe">
<title>The &kde; frame</title>

<para>The &kde; Frame (which is not labled in the diagram above,
surrounds all applications run under &kde;.  For more information on
&kde; Frames, please see the &kde; User Guide.</para>

</sect2>
</sect1>
</chapter>

<chapter id="guides">
<title>Detailed Guides: Document Storage and Printing</title>

<para>This section of the documentation will cover everything you need
to know about starting a new spreadsheet, saving a spreadsheet to a
file, retrieving a saved and printing a document.</para> 

<sect1 id="new-doc">
<title>Beginning a new file</title>

<para>Go on writing...</para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="saving">
<title>Saving a spreadsheet to a file</title>

<para>Once you have entered data, formula and whatsoever into a
spreadsheet, you will usually want to save this to a file on your hard
drive.</para> 

</sect1>

<sect1 id="loading">
<title>Retrieving a saved file</title>

<para>The <guimenuitem>Open</guimenuitem> command can be invoked 4
ways:</para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="printing">
<title>Printing A Document</title>

<para>Go on writing</para>

</sect1>
</chapter>

<chapter id="menu-items">
<title>The Menu Items/Tool Bars</title>

<para></para>

</chapter>

<chapter id="guides2">
<title>Detailed Guides: Editing your spreadsheet</title>

<para></para>

</chapter>

<chapter id="guides3">
<title>Detailed Guides: Data representation issues</title>

<para></para>

</chapter>

<chapter id="guides4">
<title>Detailed Guides: Python scripts</title>

<para></para>

</chapter>

<chapter id="options">
<title>&kspread; Options</title>

<para>In this section we may describe how to use filters to im-and
export data</para>

<sect1 id="filters">
<title>Import/Export Filters</title>
<para></para>

<sect2 id="filter-ascii">
<title><acronym>CSV</acronym> Filter</title>

<para></para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="filter-html">
<title><acronym>HTML</acronym> Filter</title>

<para></para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="filter-excel97">

<title>&Microsoft; Excel 97 Filter</title>

<para></para>

</sect2>

</sect1>

</chapter>

<chapter id="q-and-a">
<title>Questions and Answers</title>

<sect1 id="faq">
<title><acronym>FAQ</acronym></title>

<qandaset>
<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>Where can I get updates?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para></para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>How do themes affect &kspread;?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para></para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>How does Drag and Drop work with &kspread;?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para></para>
</answer>

</qandaentry>

</qandaset>


</sect1>

</chapter>

<chapter id="credits">
<title>Credits and License</title>

<para>&kspread;</para>

<para>Program copyright 1998-1999 The &koffice; Team
<email>bongo@kongo.org</email></para>

<para>Documentation copyright 2000 Frank-Andreas Schmidt</para>

<!-- TRANS:CREDIT_FOR_TRANSLATORS -->

&underFDL;
&underGPL;
</chapter>

<glossary id="glossary">
<title>Glossary</title>


      <glossentry id="gloss-ascii">
        <glossterm><acronym>ASCII</acronym></glossterm>
        <glossdef>
          <para>Stands for ...  &kspread; can read and write documents in <acronym>ASCII</acronym> format.</para>
        </glossdef>
      </glossentry>

      <glossentry id="gloss-binary">
        <glossterm>Binary code</glossterm>
        <glossdef>
          <para>Binary code is the actual instructions for the computer.</para>
        </glossdef>
      </glossentry>

</glossary>

<appendix id="appendix">
<title>Key Bindings Summary</title>

<table>
<title>Key Bindings for &kspread;</title>
<tgroup cols="2">
<thead><row><entry>Command</entry><entry>Key Combination</entry></row></thead>
<tbody>
<row><entry>Start New Document</entry><entry><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>N</keycap></keycombo></entry></row>
<row><entry>Open Document</entry><entry><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>O</keycap></keycombo></entry></row>
<row><entry>Save Document</entry><entry><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>S</keycap></keycombo></entry></row>
<row><entry>Print Document</entry><entry><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>P</keycap></keycombo></entry></row>
<row><entry>Close Document</entry><entry><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>W</keycap></keycombo></entry></row>
<row><entry>Quit KSpread</entry><entry><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>Q</keycap></keycombo></entry></row>
<row><entry>Forgot</entry><entry><keycombo action="simul">&Alt;<keycap>Backspace</keycap></keycombo></entry></row>
<row><entry>Copy</entry><entry><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>C</keycap></keycombo></entry></row>
<row><entry>Cut</entry><entry><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>X</keycap></keycombo></entry></row>
<row><entry>Paste</entry><entry><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>V</keycap></keycombo></entry></row>
<row><entry>Find and Replace</entry><entry><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>F</keycap></keycombo></entry></row>
<row><entry>Select All</entry><entry><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>A</keycap></keycombo></entry></row>
<row><entry>Insert Picture</entry><entry><keycombo action="simul"><keycap>F2</keycap></keycombo></entry></row>
<row><entry>Insert Clipart</entry><entry><keycombo action="simul"><keycap>F3</keycap></keycombo></entry></row>
<row><entry>Insert Special Character</entry><entry><keycombo action="simul">&Alt;<keycap>C</keycap></keycombo></entry></row>
<row><entry>Insert Hard Frame Break</entry><entry><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>Enter</keycap></keycombo></entry></row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>

</appendix>     

<appendix id="installation">
<title>Installation</title>
<sect1 id="requirements"><title>System Requirements</title>
<para>In order to install and use &kspread; you must have:  </para>

<itemizedlist>
<listitem>
<para>A functioning &UNIX; system with the &X-Windows; system
configured.</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>The K Desktop Environment 2.2 (&kde; 2.2). &kspread; will probably
not function with older versions of &kde;.  Information on obtaining and
installing &kde; 2.2 can be found at: <ulink
url="http://www.kde.org">http://www.kde.org.</ulink></para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>Permission to install software on your computer.  If you are on a
stand alone system, this will not be a problem.  If, however, you are
using a networked computer, check with your administrator.</para>
</listitem>
</itemizedlist>

<para>If you plan on <link linkend="from-source">compiling &koffice;
from source code</link> you will also need:</para>

<itemizedlist>
<listitem>
<para><command>automake</command> 1.4 or newer.  This can be downloaded
from: <ulink
url="ftp://ftp.gnu.org/pub/gnu/automake/">ftp://ftp.gnu.org/pub/gnu/automake/</ulink></para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para><command>autoconf</command> 2.13 or later.  This can be downloaded
from: <ulink
url="ftp://ftp.gnu.org/pub/gnu/autoconf/">ftp://ftp.gnu.org/pub/gnu/autoconf/</ulink></para>
</listitem> 
<listitem>
<para>A C++ compiler which supports exceptions (preferably
<command>gcc</command> 2.95.x). This can be downloaded from <ulink
url="http://egcs.cygnus.com/">http://egcs.cygnus.com/</ulink></para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>Troll Tech's &Qt; 2.3 development packages.  These can be
downloaded from <ulink
url="ftp://ftp.troll.no/">ftp://ftp.troll.no/</ulink></para>
</listitem>
</itemizedlist>

<para>Once your system meets these requirements, you than need to decide
whether you want to install from the source code, or premade compiled
packages.</para>

<para>If you want to obtain the most current binary version of &koffice;,
you can find more information at <link linkend="getting-binaries">Getting
Binary Packages</link>.</para>

<para>If pre-compiled binaries are not available for your system, you
can download the source code and compile it yourself.  Instructions on
where to obtain the current source code and what to do with the source
code once you have it, can be found under <link
linkend="getting-source">Getting the source code</link>.</para>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="getting-binaries">
<title>Getting Binary Packages</title>

<para>You can download the most current binaries from <ulink
url="http://koffice.kde.org/">http://koffice.kde.org/</ulink></para>

<para>or from one of many mirror sites.  The current list of mirror
sites can be found at <ulink
url="http://www.kde.org/mirrors.html">http://www.kde.org/mirrors.html</ulink></para>

<note>
<para>It is important that you find a binary package that is compatable
with your system.  If you are unable to find it here, you may be able to
obtain a pre-compiled binary from the website of your
distribution.</para>
</note>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="from-binaries">
<title>From Binary Packages</title>

<para>To install &kspread; from precompiled binaries, you should:</para>

<orderedlist>
<listitem>
<para>Ensure your computer has all the required software (excluding
&koffice; of course), is installed.  You can find the system requirements
under <link linkend="requirements">System Requirements</link>.</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>Download the &koffice; binary (***Insert filenames (rpm and deb
and tar) here***) into a temporary directory.</para>
</listitem>

<listitem>
<para>If the file is a <literal role="extension">.rpm</literal>
(&RedHat; Package Management Package), &koffice; can be installed with:
<userinput><command>rpm</command> <option>-U</option>
<replaceable>filename</replaceable></userinput> </para>

<para>If the file is a <literal role="extension">.deb</literal>
(Debian Package file), &koffice; can be installed with:
<userinput><command>dpkg</command> <option>-i</option>
<replaceable>filename</replaceable></userinput> </para>

<para>If the file is a tarball (ends in <literal
role="extension">.tar.gz</literal> or <literal
role="extension">.tgz</literal>), &koffice; can be installed with
<userinput><command>tar</command> <option>-xzvf</option>
<replaceable>filename</replaceable></userinput> </para>
</listitem>

<listitem>
<para>You are now installed!</para>
</listitem>
</orderedlist>

<para>You can now <link linkend="starting-kspread">start
&kspread;</link> or you can go through a <link linkend="tutorial">Step
by Step</link> which will help take you through a sample
document. </para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="getting-source">
<title>Getting Source Code</title>

<para>You can download the current source code from <ulink
url="http://koffice.kde.org/">http://koffice.kde.org/</ulink> or from
one of many mirror sites.  The current list of mirror sites can be found
at <ulink
url="http://www.kde.org/mirrors.html">http://www.kde.org/mirrors.html</ulink></para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="from-source">
<title>From Source Code</title>

<para>If you want to build &kspread; from source code, you should</para>

<orderedlist>
<listitem>
<para>Ensure your computer has all the required software (excluding
&koffice; of course), is installed.  You can find the system
requirements under <link linkend="requirements">System
Requirements</link>.</para>
</listitem>

<listitem>
<para>Download the &koffice; source file (Insert filenames (srpm and
tar) here***) into a temporary directory.</para>
</listitem>

</orderedlist>

<para>STUFF</para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="compiling-problems">
<title>Problems with Compilation</title>

<para>Problems STUFF</para>

</sect1>

</appendix>

&documentation.index; 
</book>

