<sect1 id="bookmarks">
<sect1info>
<authorgroup>
<author>
<firstname>Mike</firstname>
<surname>McBride</surname>
</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>
</sect1info>
<title>Document bookmarks</title>
<indexterm><primary>bookmarks</primary></indexterm>

<para>Bookmarks are invisible placeholders that allow you to move easily to specified points in a large document.</para>
<tip><para>Some other wordprocessors have bookmarks as part of their interface.  If you are familiar with their use, you will 
find that &kword; functions in a similar manner.</para></tip>
<para>It should be noted that bookmarks are attached to the <emphasis>text</emphasis> near the cursor, not the page location.  If 
the text moves forward or backward in the document (as text is inserted or deleted respectively), the bookmark moves with the text.</para>
<sect2 id="bookmark-add">
<title>Creating a new bookmark</title>
<para>Creating a bookark is simple.</para>
<para>Place the cursor where you want the bookmark to be inserted.  Select
<menuchoice><guimenu>Insert</guimenu><guimenuitem>Bookmark...</guimenuitem></menuchoice> from
the menubar.</para>
<para>A small dialog box will appear.</para>
<para>Type a short description of the bookmark location (i.e. Chapter 1, Appendix, Abstract, etc). This description will identify the
bookmark for you.</para>
<para>Click <guibutton>OK</guibutton> to create the bookmark.</para>
<para>Click <guibutton>Cancel</guibutton> to return to your document without creating a bookmark.</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="bookmark-jump">
<title>Jump to a previously created bookmark</title>
<para>To jump to a previously created bookmark, select
<menuchoice><guimenu>Tools</guimenu><guimenuitem>Select Bookmark...</guimenuitem></menuchoice> from
the menubar.</para>
<para>A small dialog will appear.  Double click on the desired bookmark with the &LMB;.  You will immediately be taken to
the location in the document that is attached to that bookmark. </para>
<note><para>Alternatively, you can click once on the desired bookmark with the &LMB;, and then click on
<guibutton>OK</guibutton>.  This will function the same as double clicking on the bookmark.</para></note>
</sect2>


<sect2 id="bookmark-rename">
<title>Rename a bookmark</title>
<para>To rename a bookmark, select
<menuchoice><guimenu>Tools</guimenu><guimenuitem>Select Bookmark...</guimenuitem></menuchoice> from
the menubar.</para>
<para>A small dialog will appear.  Click on the desired bookmark with the &LMB;.  Now select <guibutton>Rename Bookmark</guibutton>.
A small dialog will appear.  Enter the new name for your bookmark.  Click <guibutton>OK</guibutton>.  The
bookmark is renamed immediately.
</para></sect2>

<sect2 id="bookmark-delete">
<title>Delete a bookmark</title>
<para>To delete a bookmark, select
<menuchoice><guimenu>Tools</guimenu><guimenuitem>Select Bookmark...</guimenuitem></menuchoice> from
the menubar.</para>
<para>A small dialog will appear.  Click on the desired bookmark with the &LMB;.  </para>
<warning><para>Be sure you have selected the correct bookmark from the list before proceeding.  &kword; does not ask for
confirmation before deleting the selected bookmark.</para></warning>
<para>Now click <guibutton>Delete Bookmark</guibutton>.
The bookmark is deleted immediately.</para>
</sect2>




</sect1>
