<chapter id="status">
<title>Status of Documentation</title>

<para>Please do not translate this file.....IT WILL BE DELETED PRIOR TO RELEASE!</para> 
<para>Listed below, is the status of each section of the documentation as I see it.</para>
<para>If the section is listed as <emphasis>Written</emphasis>, it is in near final form to my knowledge. I hope to be able to
check each section individually prior to release.  Please let me <email>mpmcbride7@yahoo.com</email> know of any comments or any inaccuracies you notice.</para>
<para>If the section is listed as <emphasis>Needs Updates</emphasis> or <emphasis>Not Written</emphasis>, 
I am still interested in any comments you have, but it still needs major work.</para>
<para>If the section is listed as <emphasis>Checked</emphasis>, then the chapter has been reviewed a second time for content, flow and 
crosslinking.  The section has been run through a spell checker, checkXML and meinproc and is correct
as of the date included in the note.</para>

<informaltable>
<tgroup cols="3">
<tbody>
<row><entry>Introduction</entry><entry></entry><entry></entry></row>
<row><entry></entry><entry>Introduction </entry><entry>Checked (May 7, 2002)</entry></row>
<row><entry></entry><entry>What parts of this guide should I read? </entry><entry>Checked (May 7, 2002)</entry></row>
<row><entry></entry></row>

<row><entry>Fundamentals </entry><entry></entry><entry></entry></row>
<row><entry></entry><entry>Starting KWord </entry><entry>Checked (May 7, 2002)</entry></row>
<row><entry></entry><entry>An Introduction to Templates </entry><entry>Checked (May 7, 2002)</entry></row>
<row><entry></entry><entry>The difference between Text Oriented and Page Layout templates </entry><entry>Checked (May 7, 2002)</entry></row>
<row><entry></entry></row>

<row><entry>Step by Step Tutorial </entry><entry></entry><entry>Checked (May 7, 2002)</entry></row>

<row><entry></entry></row>

<row><entry>The KWord Screen </entry><entry></entry><entry></entry></row>
<row><entry></entry><entry>Overview </entry><entry>Checked (May 7, 2002)</entry></row>
<row><entry></entry><entry>Using Rulers </entry><entry>Checked (May 7, 2002)</entry></row>
<row><entry></entry></row>

<row><entry>DG:Document Storage and Printing </entry><entry></entry><entry></entry></row>
<row><entry></entry><entry>Beginning a New Document </entry><entry>Checked (May 7, 2002)</entry></row>
<row><entry></entry><entry>Saving a Document </entry><entry>Checked (May 7, 2002)</entry></row>
<row><entry></entry><entry>Retrieving a Saved Document </entry><entry>Checked (May 7, 2002)</entry></row>
<row><entry></entry><entry>Printing A Document </entry><entry>Checked (May 7, 2002)</entry></row>
<row><entry></entry></row>

<row><entry>DG: Editing your Document </entry><entry></entry><entry></entry></row>
<row><entry></entry><entry>Selecting Text </entry><entry>Checked (May 7, 2002)</entry></row>
<row><entry></entry><entry>Using Multiple Views </entry><entry>Checked (May 7, 2002)</entry></row>
<row><entry></entry><entry>Undo/Redo </entry><entry>Checked (May 7, 2002)</entry></row>
<row><entry></entry><entry>Cut/Copy/Paste and the Clipboard </entry><entry>Checked (May 7, 2002)</entry></row>
<row><entry></entry><entry>Finding and Replacing Text </entry><entry>Checked (May 26, 2002)</entry></row>
<row><entry></entry><entry>Spell Checking </entry><entry>Checked (May 21, 2002)</entry></row>
<row><entry></entry><entry>Thesaurus </entry><entry>Not Written</entry></row>
<row><entry></entry><entry>Autocorrection </entry><entry>Checked (May 21, 2002)</entry></row>
<row><entry></entry><entry>Autoformat</entry><entry>Not written.</entry></row>
<row><entry></entry><entry>Autocompletion</entry><entry>Not written.</entry></row>
<row><entry></entry></row>

<row><entry>DG: Document Layout </entry><entry></entry><entry></entry></row>
<row><entry></entry><entry>Formatting the Page </entry><entry>Checked (May 26, 2002)</entry></row>
<row><entry></entry><entry>Working with Frames </entry><entry><para>Checked (May 26, 2002)</para><para>Ensure bring to front and put back frames works the way documented ;-></para></entry></row>
<row><entry></entry><entry>Setting the Properties for a Frame/Formatting Frames </entry><entry><para>Checked (May 26, 2002)</para><para>Needs a new screenshot</para></entry></row>
<row><entry></entry><entry>Formatting paragraph </entry><entry>Checked (May 26, 2002)</entry></row>
<row><entry></entry><entry>Using Tab Stops </entry><entry>Checked (May 26, 2002)</entry></row>
<row><entry></entry><entry>Formatting Characters </entry><entry>Checked (May 26, 2002)</entry></row>
<row><entry></entry><entry>Styles </entry><entry>Checked (May 26, 2002)</entry></row>
<row><entry></entry><entry>Columns </entry><entry>Checked (May 26, 2002)</entry></row>
<row><entry></entry><entry>Lists </entry><entry>Checked (May 26, 2002)</entry></row>
<row><entry></entry><entry>Tables </entry><entry><para>Checked (May 26, 2002)</para><para>Table protected cells.</para></entry></row>
<row><entry></entry><entry>Headers/Footers </entry><entry>Checked (May 26, 2002)</entry></row>
<row><entry></entry><entry>Creating Templates/Saving a document as a template </entry><entry>Checked (May 26, 2002)</entry></row>
<row><entry></entry></row>

<row><entry>DG: More than just text </entry><entry></entry><entry></entry></row>
<row><entry></entry><entry>Introduction </entry><entry>Checked (May 26, 2002)</entry></row>
<row><entry></entry><entry>Documentation Information </entry><entry>Checked (May 26, 2002)</entry></row>
<row><entry></entry><entry>Graphics </entry><entry><para>Checked (May 26, 2002)</para><para>Saving pictures to seperate files.</para></entry></row>
<row><entry></entry><entry>Table of Contents </entry><entry>Checked (May 26, 2002)</entry></row>
<row><entry></entry><entry>Document Variables </entry><entry>Checked (May 26, 2002)</entry></row>
<row><entry></entry><entry>Personal expressions </entry><entry>Checked (May 26, 2002)</entry></row>
<row><entry></entry><entry>Document links </entry><entry><para>Checked (May 26, 2002)</para><para>Open link, change link options.</para></entry></row>
<row><entry></entry><entry>Endnotes/Footnotes </entry><entry>Stable-Not Written</entry></row>
<row><entry></entry><entry>KOffice Data </entry><entry>Not Stable-Not Written-March 12</entry></row>
<row><entry></entry><entry>Formulas </entry><entry>Unstable-Not Written</entry></row>
<row><entry></entry></row>

<row><entry>Advanced Topics </entry><entry></entry><entry></entry></row>
<row><entry></entry><entry>Chapter Numbering </entry><entry>Not Written</entry></row>
<row><entry></entry><entry>Mail Merge </entry><entry>Not Written</entry></row>
<row><entry></entry><entry>Document structure </entry><entry>Not Written</entry></row>
<row><entry></entry></row>

<row><entry>How do I... </entry><entry></entry><entry></entry></row>
<row><entry></entry><entry>How do I get the pages numbers on the outsides of the pages ...</entry><entry>Checked (March 23, 2002)</entry></row>
<row><entry></entry><entry>How do I create a .pdf file to post on the web? </entry><entry>Checked (March 23, 2002)</entry></row>
<row><entry></entry><entry>How do I remove template categories from the open dialog. </entry><entry>Checked (March 23, 2002)</entry></row>
<row><entry></entry><entry>How do I re-order the frames in a frameset. </entry><entry>Not Written</entry></row>


<row><entry></entry></row>

<row><entry>The Menu Items/Tool Bars </entry><entry></entry><entry></entry></row>
<row><entry></entry><entry>Introduction to Menu Bars and Tool Bars </entry><entry>Checked (May 27, 2002)</entry></row>
<row><entry></entry><entry>Hiding, Changing, and Moving Tool Bars </entry><entry>Checked (May 27, 2002)</entry></row>
<row><entry></entry><entry>The &kword; Menu Bar </entry><entry>Checked (May 27, 2002)</entry></row>
<row><entry></entry><entry>Formatting ToolBar </entry><entry>Checked (May 27, 2002)</entry></row>
<row><entry></entry><entry>File Toolbar </entry><entry>Checked (May 27, 2002)</entry></row>
<row><entry></entry><entry>Insert Toolbar </entry><entry>Checked (May 27, 2002)</entry></row>
<row><entry></entry><entry>Edit Toolbar </entry><entry>Checked (May 27, 2002)</entry></row>
<row><entry></entry><entry>Paragraph Toolbar </entry><entry>Checked (May 27, 2002)</entry></row>
<row><entry></entry><entry>Table ToolBar </entry><entry>Checked (May 27, 2002)</entry></row>
<row><entry></entry><entry>Border Toolbar </entry><entry>Checked (May 27, 2002)</entry></row>
<row><entry></entry><entry>Formula Toolbar </entry><entry>Checked (May 27, 2002)</entry></row>
<row><entry></entry><entry>Selecting Colors from a Color dialog </entry><entry>Checked (May 27, 2002)</entry></row>
<row><entry></entry><entry>Selecting files from the file dialog </entry><entry>Checked (May 27, 2002)</entry></row>
<row><entry></entry></row>

<row><entry>KWord Options </entry><entry></entry><entry></entry></row>
<row><entry></entry><entry>Configure Key Bindings </entry><entry>Checked (May 6, 2002)</entry></row>
<row><entry></entry><entry>Configure Toolbars </entry><entry>Checked (May 6, 2002)</entry></row>
<row><entry></entry><entry>KWord Options </entry><entry>Checked (May 7, 2002)</entry></row>
<row><entry></entry></row>

<row><entry>Questions and Answers </entry><entry></entry><entry>Checked (March 23, 2002)</entry></row>
<row><entry></entry></row>

<row><entry>Credits and Licenses </entry><entry></entry><entry>Checked (March 23, 2002)</entry></row>
<row><entry></entry></row>

<row><entry>Installation </entry><entry></entry><entry></entry></row>
<row><entry></entry><entry>How to obtain KWord </entry><entry>Checked (March 23, 2002)</entry></row>
<row><entry></entry><entry>Requirements </entry><entry>Checked (March 23, 2002)</entry></row>
<row><entry></entry><entry>Compilation and Installation </entry><entry>Checked (March 23, 2002)</entry></row>
<row><entry></entry></row>

<row><entry>KWord Command Line Options </entry><entry></entry><entry>Checked (March 23, 2002)</entry></row>
<row><entry></entry></row>

<row><entry>Import/Export Filters </entry><entry></entry><entry></entry></row>
<row><entry></entry><entry>Abiword Filter </entry><entry>Needs Updates</entry></row>
<row><entry></entry><entry>AmiPro Filter </entry><entry>Written</entry></row>
<row><entry></entry><entry>Applixware Filter </entry><entry>Needs Updates</entry></row>
<row><entry></entry><entry>ASCII Filter </entry><entry>Needs Updates</entry></row>
<row><entry></entry><entry>HTML Filter (HTML 4.01) </entry><entry>Needs Updates</entry></row>
<row><entry></entry><entry>LaTeX Filter </entry><entry>Not Written</entry></row>
<row><entry></entry><entry>Maker Interchange Format (MIF)/Adobe Framemaker Filter </entry><entry>Not Written</entry></row>
<row><entry></entry><entry>Microsoft Word 97 and Word 2000 Filter </entry><entry>Needs Updates</entry></row>
<row><entry></entry><entry>Palmdoc Filter </entry><entry>Written</entry></row>
<row><entry></entry><entry>Rich Text File (RTF) Filter </entry><entry>Needs Updates</entry></row>
<row><entry></entry><entry>Star Writer Filter </entry><entry>Not Written</entry></row>
<row><entry></entry><entry>WML Filter </entry><entry>Written</entry></row>
<row><entry></entry><entry>WordPerfect Filter </entry><entry>Written</entry></row>
<row><entry></entry></row>

<row><entry>Key Bindings Summary </entry><entry></entry><entry>Checked (May 7, 2002)</entry></row>
<row><entry></entry></row>

<row><entry>KWord file format </entry><entry></entry><entry><para>Checked (April 17, 2002)</para><para>Have developers check</para></entry></row>
<row><entry></entry></row>

<row><entry>Glossary</entry><entry></entry><entry>Checked (March 23, 2002)</entry></row>
<row><entry></entry></row>

<row><entry>Sections to be added</entry><entry></entry><entry></entry></row>

</tbody>
</tgroup>
</informaltable>

<sect1 id="deleteme-misc">
<title>Misc issues</title>
<para></para>
</sect1>
</chapter>
