<sect1 id="headers-and-footers">
<sect1info>
<authorgroup>
<author>
<firstname>Mike</firstname>
<surname>McBride</surname>
</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>
</sect1info>
<title>Headers/Footers</title>
<indexterm><primary>headers</primary><secondary>using</secondary></indexterm>
<indexterm><primary>footers</primary><secondary>using</secondary></indexterm>

<sect2 id="headers-and-footers-intro"><title>Introduction</title>
<para>With multi-page documents, you might want to provide certain
information at the top or bottom of each page throughout the document.
Headers or footers can provide the reader with important information and they tie your
documents together visually. </para>

<para>Headers and footers are special frames.
You can edit the text and data within the headers and
footers just as you would any other text frame. What makes headers and footers
different from most other frames in &kword; is that they are automatically created at the top and bottom
of each page.</para>

<note><para>Headers and footers are only available when using text oriented templates.</para></note>
</sect2>
<sect2 id="headers-and-footers-use"><title>Using headers and footers</title>
<para>You can toggle headers and footers on and off independently at any
time.</para>

<para>You can toggle the headers by selecting <menuchoice>
<guimenu>Format</guimenu><guimenuitem>Enable/Disable Document Headers</guimenuitem></menuchoice>
from the menubar.</para>

<para>You can toggle the footers by selecting <menuchoice>
<guimenu>Format</guimenu><guimenuitem>Enable/Disable Document Footers</guimenuitem></menuchoice>
from the menubar.</para>

<para>The footers will be
added below the margins you set under page setup.  The text within the
main frames will be moved so the headers and/or footers do not overlap
any text.</para>

<para>Since headers and footers are simply text frames that are placed on each page, you can use all of the
tools and techniques you are familiar with to create your header and footer information.</para>

<para>For more information on options for headers and footers, see the section on
<link linkend="page-format">Formatting the page</link>. </para>
<para>For information on page numbers see the section on <link linkend="page-number">Page Numbering</link>.</para>
<para>For information on formatting the frame, see the section on
<link linkend="format-frame">Setting the Properties for a Frame</link>.</para>
<para>For an example of how to place the page numbers on the outside of even and odd pages, see the
<link linkend="qd-page-numbers">How do I?</link> section.</para>
</sect2>
</sect1>
