<para>Lets look at this dialog more closely:</para>

<para><emphasis>Toolbar</emphasis></para>

<para>This dialog shows my current directory is <filename
class="directory">/home/mmcbride/kword</filename>.  You can see this
by the textbox at the top of the dialog.  If you click on this drop
down box, you will see common and recently visited directories.  By
selecting one of these directories, you will be immediatly moved to
that directory and the dialog box will update the file list.</para>

<para>The large box below that shows I currently have 1 folder in this
directory, entitled <filename>Past Work</filename>, and 2 files
(<filename>Job Description</filename> and
<filename>Resume</filename>).</para>

<para>In the upper left corner, is a blue arrow pointed up.  This
arrow will take you up one level in the directory structure.</para>

<para>The next two buttons are backwards and forward buttons.  These
buttons work just like an internet browser, where you can use the back
button to travel to the previous directory, and the forward button to
advance into a directory you just came from.</para>

<para>Next to the arrow buttons, is a button that looks like a house.
Clicking this will take you to your home directory.</para>

<para>Next to the home button, is a reload button.  Clicking this
button, causes &kword; to reload the current directory in the event
things have changed.</para>

<para>Next to the reload button, is a button with a grey ribbon on it.
This button allows you to set and navigate through bookmarks.  This is
a quick way to jump to commonly accessed directories.  By clicking
this button, a submenu appears which allows you to add bookmarks or
jump to a new bookmark.</para>

<para>Next to the bookmark button, is a button with a gear on it.
Clicking this button brings up a sub menu with several entries:</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guimenuitem>New Directory</guimenuitem></term>
<listitem>
<para>Create a new subdirectory in the current directory.  &kword; will automatically move you into this new subdirectory once it is created.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guimenuitem>Delete</guimenuitem></term>
<listitem>
<para>This will delete the selected file, not the current
document.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guimenuitem>Sorting</guimenuitem></term>
<listitem>
<para>This will bring up another submenu.  You can sort the files by
filename, by date, or by size.  Selecting the
<guimenuitem>Reverse</guimenuitem> option will reverse the sort
order.  Selecting <guimenuitem>Directories First</guimenuitem> will
place the directories above all other files in the dialog box.
Selecting <guimenuitem>Case insensitive</guimenuitem> will sort
filenames regardless of capitalization.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guimenuitem>View</guimenuitem></term>
<listitem>
<para>This will also bring up a submenu.  You can use the options in
this submenu to change the appearance of the file dialog.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guimenuitem>Properties</guimenuitem></term>
<listitem>
<para>If you have selected a file in the dialog box, when you select
this option you will be given all of the properties of the selected
file.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

<para><emphasis>Location Bar</emphasis></para>

<para>Along the left side of the dialog box, is a column that contains
several icons. You can think of each of these icons as a shortcut to
another subdirectory. If you click on an icon, you will be immediatly
moved to that location.</para>

<para>You can add/edit or delete entries from the Location Bar.
Simply click with the &RMB; and a small submenu will appear.</para>

<para><emphasis>File Name and Filters</emphasis></para>


<para>The text box labled <guilabel>Location</guilabel> is blank,
which indicates this file does not currently have a filename at
all.</para>



