<sect1 id="kword-file-format">
<title>&kword; file format</title>
<para>&kword; uses two open source, independentaly developed standards 
for its file format.  The combination was chosen for its balance between 
convienience and open development models.</para>

<para>First, it should be noted that all &kword; files are really text 
files that are compressed to reduce their space requirements. </para>
<para>The text files are compressed into a single file using the same algorithm as used by <ulink url="http://www.gnu.org/software/tar/tar.html"><application>tar</application></ulink>.</para>
<para>You can uncompress the files with the following command:</para>

<screen width="40">
<prompt>%</prompt> <userinput><command>tar -xzvf </command><replaceable>filename</replaceable></userinput>
</screen>
<para>This will expand the &kword; document file into its component files.</para>
<para>The text portion of all KWord files are &XML; (eXtensible Markup Language) files.</para>
<note><para>For more information on &XML; documents, processors and technology, please visit 
<simplelist>
<member><ulink url="http://www.w3.org/XML/">World Wide Web Consortium &XML; pages</ulink></member>
<member><ulink url="http://www.xml.org/xml/resources_cover.shtml">XML.org Resource Guide</ulink></member>
<member><ulink url="http://www.ucc.ie/xml/">The &XML; FAQ</ulink></member>
</simplelist></para></note>

<para>All &kword; documents consist of at least two &XML; files:</para>
<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><filename>maindoc.xml</filename></term>
<listitem><para>This file contains the bulk of the kword text, tables and formula information. It is marked with
&XML; tags according to the official DTD.  A current copy of the DTD is located at:
<ulink url="http://webcvs.kde.org/cgi-bin/cvsweb.cgi/koffice/kword/dtd/kword.dtd">http://webcvs.kde.org/cgi-bin/cvsweb.cgi/koffice/kword/dtd/kword.dtd</ulink>.
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><filename>documentinfo.xml</filename></term>
<listitem><para>This file contains the document information.  This is information entered into the dialog
boxes when selecting <menuchoice><guimenu>File</guimenu><guimenuitem>Document Information</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>  from the menubar. This information is useful for tracking authors, contact information etc.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

<para>In addition, there may be other files included in the &kword; document file.  Pictures, images and other binary information are stored within the &kword; document as seperate files.</para>
<para>For more specific information on &kword; file storage or other internal information, please see <ulink url="http://koffice.kde.org/developer">The KOffice API</ulink> and the <ulink url="http://developer.kde.org">General KDE developer information pages</ulink>.</para>
</sect1>
