<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE book PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.1-Based Variant V1.0//EN" "customization/dtd/kdex.dtd" [
 <!ENTITY kappname "&krayon;">
 <!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
 <!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE">
 <!ENTITY krayonusing SYSTEM "krayon-using.docbook">
 <!ENTITY krayoncommands SYSTEM "krayon-commands.docbook">
 <!ENTITY krayonfaq SYSTEM "krayon-faq.docbook">
]>

<book lang="&language;">

<!-- Document Information................................................. -->

<bookinfo>
<title>The Krayon Handbook</title>
<authorgroup>
<author>
<firstname>David</firstname><surname>Johnson</surname>
<affiliation><address><email>david@usermode.org</email></address></affiliation>
<contrib>First draft</contrib>
</author>

<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->

</authorgroup>

<copyright>
<year>2001</year>
<holder>David Johnson</holder>
</copyright>

<!-- insert copyright notices for the translations here -->

<legalnotice>
&FDLNotice;
</legalnotice>

<!-- Date and version information of the documentation  -->

<date>2001-06-02</date>
<releaseinfo>1.00.00</releaseinfo>

<abstract>
<para>&krayon; is an image manipulation and processing program, suitable
for photo retouching or image creation. It is a part of the &koffice;
suite of applications.</para>
</abstract>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>Krayon</keyword>
<keyword>KOffice</keyword>
<keyword>image processing</keyword>
<keyword>image manipulation</keyword>
</keywordset>

</bookinfo>

<chapter id="introduction">
<title>Introduction</title>

<para>&krayon; is a full featured image manipulation program. You can
use &krayon; for all your image creation and editing needs, such as
making web images, touching up scanned photographs, creating original
art, or anything else you might need to do with bitmapped images.</para>

<para>What makes &krayon; different, and special, is ease of use
compared with other high-end applications, and full integration with
&koffice; and &kde;. Because of this, &krayon; supports drag and drop,
themes, embedding, and many other advanced features you expect from a
modern desktop environment. Ease of use is important to amateur users,
but even more important to professional artists who must spend many
hours a day using such applications to work with images.</para>

<para>&krayon; is primarily a painting program with some image
processing capabilities. More capabilities can be added with
plugins. Using native and foreign plugins, and parts which can reuse
other &kde; components, additional tools and utilities can be added as
needed.</para>

<para>&krayon; uses &XML; as its native file format. This allows import
filters for almost every type of image file format to be easily
created. It also allows other programs to more easily import &krayon;
files.</para>

</chapter>

<!-- include our big chapters ............................................ -->

&krayonusing;

&krayoncommands;

&krayonfaq;

<!-- credits ............................................................. -->

<chapter id="credits">
<title>Credits and License</title>

<para>
&krayon;
</para>

<!-- TODO get the credits right -->

<para>
Program copyright 1999 - 2000 Matthias Elter <email>me@kde.org</email>
</para>

<para>
Authors:
<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para>Matthias Elter <email>me@kde.org</email></para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Michael Koch <email>koch@kde.org</email></para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Andrew Richards <email>physajr@phys.canterbury.ac.nz</email></para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Carsten Pfeiffer <email>carpdjih@sp.zrz.tu-berlin.de</email></para></listitem>
<listitem><para>John Califf <email>jcaliff@compuzone.net</email></para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>
</para>

<para>
Current Maintainer:
<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para>John Califf <email>jcaliff@compuzone.net</email></para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>
</para>

&underGPL;              <!-- GPL License -->

<para>
Documentation copyright 1999 David Johnson <email>david@usermode.org</email>
</para>

<para>Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute this document for 
any purpose and without fee is hereby granted in perpetuity, provided
that the above copyright notice and this paragraph appear in all
copies.</para>

</chapter>

<!-- Installation ........................................................ -->

<appendix id="installation">
<title>Installation</title>

<para>&krayon; is included as part of the &koffice; package of
&kde;. Source code or prebuilt binary distributions of the &koffice;
package can be found at the main &kde; &FTP; site, <ulink
url="ftp://ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/">ftp://ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/</ulink>, or
from one of many mirror sites. A current list of mirror sites can be
found at <ulink url="http://www.kde.org/mirrors.html">
http://www.kde.org/mirrors.html</ulink>.</para>

<para>In order to install and use &krayon; you must have:</para>

<itemizedlist>
<listitem>
<para>A functioning &UNIX; or &UNIX; like system with the X Windowing
System configured.</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>The K Desktop Environment 2.x (KDE 2.x). You will need at
least the &Qt; 2.2.3 &GUI; toolkit, the kdesupport, the kdelibs, and
the kdebase packages. Information on obtaining and installing &kde;
2.x can be found at: <ulink
url="http://www.kde.org/">http://www.kde.org/</ulink>.</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>Permission to install software on your computer. If you are
on a stand alone system, this will not be a problem. If you are
using a networked computer, check with your administrator.</para>
</listitem>
</itemizedlist>

<para>Instructions for installing &koffice; from either a source code or
binary package can be found at <ulink
url="http://www.koffice.org/">http://www.koffice.org/</ulink>.</para>

</appendix>

</book>

<!--
Local Variables:
sgml-minimize-attributes:nil
sgml-general-insert-case: lower
sgml-omittag:t
sgml-shorttag:t
sgml-always-quote-attributes:t
sgml-indent-step:0
sgml-indent-data:nil
sgml-parent-document:nil
sgml-exposed-tags:nil
sgml-local-catalogs:nil
sgml-local-ecat-files:nil
sgml-default-dtd-file:($KDEDIR/share/apps/ksgmltools2/customization/dtd/kdex.dtd)
End:
-->
